BACKGROUND ::: Dietary acid load is a clinically important aspect of the diet that reflects the balance between acid-producing foods, for example, meat and cheese, and base-producing foods, for example, fruits and vegetables. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We used metabolomics to identify blood biomarkers of dietary acid load in 2 independent studies of chronic kidney disease patients: the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK, n = 689) and the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD, n = 356) study. Multivariable linear regression was used to assess the cross-sectional association between serum metabolites whose identity was known (outcome) and dietary acid load (exposure), estimated with net endogenous acid production (NEAP) based on 24-h urine urea nitrogen and potassium, and adjusted for age, sex, race, randomization group, measured glomerular filtration rate, log-transformed urine protein-to-creatinine ratio, history of cardiovascular disease, BMI, and smoking status. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Out of the 757 known, nondrug metabolites identified in AASK, 26 were significantly associated with NEAP at the Bonferroni threshold for significance (P < 6.6 × 10-5). Twenty-three of the 26 metabolites were also identified in the MDRD study, and 13 of the 23 (57%) were significantly associated with NEAP (P < 2.2 × 10-3), including 5 amino acids (S-methylmethionine, indolepropionylglycine, indolepropionate, N-methylproline, N-δ-acetylornithine), 2 cofactors and vitamins (threonate, oxalate), 1 lipid (chiro-inositol), and 5 xenobiotics (methyl glucopyranoside, stachydrine, catechol sulfate, hippurate, and tartronate). Higher levels of all 13 replicated metabolites were associated with lower NEAP in both AASK and the MDRD study. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Metabolomic profiling of serum specimens from kidney disease patients in 2 study populations identified 13 replicated metabolites associated with dietary acid load. Additional studies are needed to validate these compounds in healthy populations. These 13 compounds may potentially be used as objective markers of dietary acid load in future nutrition research studies.
Different ratios of PtAu/C electrocatalysts were synthesized and assessed for their capability by glycerol electrooxidation. Electrocatalysts were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), cyclic voltammetry (CV), chronoamperometry, and direct glycerol/air fuel cell coupled with a ATR-FTIR setup. XRD of PtAu/C electrocatalysts showed the presence of Pt (fcc), Au (fcc), and PtAu (fcc) phases, and TEM images for PtAu/C electrocatalysts showed particle size between 5.4 and 5.8 nm. PtAu/C (50:50) presented the best result for glycerol electrooxidation by cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperommetry measurements in comparison with other electrocatalysts prepared. All PtAu/C showed better performance in comparison with Pt/C and Au/C. Moreover, the addition of gold to platinum favored glycerol by electronic effect and bifunctional mechanism. Through ATR-FTIR/direct alkaline glycerol/air cell in-situ study, it was possible to identify glycerate and tartronate as main products formed during the electrochemical glycerol oxidation.
Steady-state kinetic study of the inhibition of 3-phosphoglycerate kinase reaction by the substrate analogues D-glycerol 3-phosphate, 2-phosphoglycolate, tartronate and malonate revealed competition with respect to 3-phosphoglycerate. D-Glycerate had no detectable inhibitory effect. The data indicate that (a) the phosphate of 3-phosphoglycerate plays an essential role in the formation of its complex with the enzyme and, taking into account the relatively strong binding of 3-phosphoglycerate, (b) the two charged groups of the substrate might cause a synergic interaction with the protein. The carboxyl-lacking D-glycerol 3-phosphate is a non-competitive inhibitor with respect to MgATP, while all the investigated carboxyl-containing inhibitors compete for MgATP binding. The inhibitory analogues of 3-phosphoglycerate reduce the reactivity of both the two fast-reacting and the five slow-reacting thiol groups of the enzyme molecule. In the case of the fast-reacting thiols the effect is specifically associated with the presence of a ligand's phosphate group. Similarly mainly the phosphate-containing nucleotides and analogues slow down significantly the reaction rate of the fast-reacting thiols, while adenosine is less effective and the competitive inhibitor adenine has no effect at all. MgADP has an especially dramatic effect as compared to MgATP, in line with the known X-ray structural data. The fast-reacting thiols are of particular interest, since their reactivity is possibly controlled by ligand-induced conformational changes. This is shown by the similar ligand protection against alkylation irrespective of the reagent's electrostatic charge (iodoacetamide or iodoacetate) and also by the similar substrate-binding properties of carboxamidomethylated and the unmodified enzyme.
Abstract Diethyl O-benzoyl-R-tartronates 1; RH, C2H5, Ph undergo SN2-type dealkylation and subsequent CO2 elimination at 175–190°C in anhydrous or wet DMSO, with or without inorganic salts as catalysts giving the corresponding 2-benzoyloxyesters 2. Ethyl 2-benzoyloxy-2-benzylcyanoacetate 4 also undergoes decarbethoxylation (140°C, DMSO or wet DMSO) giving 6 in small yields (1–6%). The best yields of 6 (82%) were found when pyridine was the solvent and LiI the catalyst.
2-Phosphotartronate has been synthesized by permanganate oxidation of glycerol 2-phosphate and has been tested as an inhibitor of five glycolytic enzymes that bind phosphoglycerate or phosphoglycollate. Competitive inhibition of rabbit muscle phosphoglycerate mutase, enolase and pyruvate kinase was observed. Triose phosphate isomerase and 3-phosphoglycerate kinase were not inhibited.
Hydroxypyruvate isomerase of Bacillus fastidiosus is a novel enzyme (Braun, W. and Kaltwasser, H. (1979) Arch. Microbiol. 121, 129-134) which catalyzes the reversible conversion of tartronate semialdehyde into hydroxypyruvate. The enzyme was purified to homogeneity. The native molecule had a molecular weight of 265 000-280 000 and was composed of six subunits with a molecular weight of 45 000. The enzyme showed optimal activity at pH 6.6-7.4 and 57 degrees C. Hydroxypyruvate isomerase is stable on heating for 10 min at 67 degrees C. The enzyme appeared to be specific for tartronate semialdehyde and hydroxypyyruvate and no cofactors were involved in the reaction. The equilibrium constant K = [tartronate semialdehyde] divided by [hydroxypyruvate] was found to be 2.5 at pH 7.1, and 30 degrees C.
Malic enzymes are widely distributed in nature and have many biological functions. The crystal structure of human mitochondrial NAD(P)+-dependent malic enzyme in a quaternary complex with NAD+, Mn++ and oxalate has been determined at 2.2 A resolution. The structures of the quaternary complex with NAD+, Mg++, tartronate or ketomalonate have been determined at 2.6 A resolution. The structures show the enzyme in a closed form in these complexes and reveal the binding modes of the cation and the inhibitors. The divalent cation is coordinated in an octahedral fashion by six ligating oxygens, two from the substrate/inhibitor, three from Glu 255, Asp 256 and Asp 279 of the enzyme, and one from a water molecule. The structural information has significant implications for the catalytic mechanism of malic enzymes and identifies Tyr 112 and Lys 183 as possible catalytic residues. Changes in tetramer organization of the enzyme are also observed in these complexes, which might be relevant for its cooperative behavior and allosteric control.
Abstract A CoA-thioester dependent transferase, hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA: tartronate hydroxycinnamoyltransferase, involved in the formation of hydroxycinnamoyltartronic acids, was extracted from young plants of mung bean and some of its properties determined. Occurrence and development of the transferase in different organs of the young plant correlated well with the accumulation patterns of the hydroxycinnamoyltartronates.
The use of bio-renewable resources for the generation of materials and chemicals continues to attract significant research attention. Glycerol, a by-product from biodiesel manufacture, is a highly functionalised renewable raw material, and in this paper the oxidation of glycerol in the presence of base using supported gold, palladium and gold–palladium alloys is described and discussed. Two supports, TiO2 and carbon, and two preparation methods, wet impregnation and sol-immobilisation, are compared and contrasted. For the monometallic catalysts prepared by impregnation similar activities are observed for Au and Pd, but the carbon-supported monometallic catalysts are more active than those on TiO2. Glycerate is the major product and lesser amounts of tartronate, glycolate, oxalate and formate are observed, suggesting a sequential oxidation pathway. Combining the gold and palladium as supported alloy nanocrystals leads to a significant enhancement in catalyst activity and the TiO2-supported catalysts are significantly more active for the impregnated catalysts. The use of a sol-immobilisation preparation method as compared to impregnation leads to the highest activity alloy catalysts and the origins of these activity trends are discussed.
Treatment of 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide phosphate with sodium periodate resulted in oxidation of the ribose linked to 3-aminopyridine ring and cleavage of the dinucleotide into 3-aminopyridine and adenosine moieties. These two moieties were separated by thin layer chromatography and were synergistically bound to pigeon liver malic enzyme (EC 1.1.1.40), causing inactivation of the enzyme. The inactivation showed saturation kinetics. The apparent binding constant for the reversible enzyme-reagent binary complex (KI) and the maximum inactivation rate constant at saturating reagent concentration (kmax) were found to be 1.1 +/- 0.02 mM and 0.068 +/- 0.001 min-1, respectively. L-Malate at low concentration enhanced the inactivation rate by lowering the KI value whereas high malate concentration increased the kmax. Mn2+ or NADP+ partially protected the enzyme from the inactivation and gave additive protection when used together. L-Malate eliminated the protective effect of NADP+ or Mn2+. Maximum and synergistic protection was afforded by NADP+, Mn2+ plus L-malate (or tartronate). Oxidized and cleaved 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide phosphate was also found to be a competitive inhibitor versus NADP+ in the oxidative decarboxylation reaction catalyzed by malic enzyme with a Ki value of 4.1 +/- 0.1 microM. 3-Aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide phosphate or its periodate-oxidized cleaved products bound to the enzyme anticooperatively. Oxidized 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide phosphate labeled the nucleotide binding site of the enzyme with a fluorescent probe which may be readily traced or quantified. The completely inactivated enzyme incorporated 2 mol of reagent/mol of enzyme tetramer. The inactivation was partially reversible by dilution and could be made irreversible by treating the modified enzyme with sodium borohydride. This fluorescent compound and its counterpart-oxidized 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide may be a potential affinity label for all other NAD(P)+-dependent dehydrogenases.
The malic enzyme from muscle mitochondria of the parasitic nematode Ascaris suum is a tetramer of 65 kDa monomers that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of malate to pyruvate and CO2 with NAD cofactor as oxidant. This malic enzyme is critical to the nematode for muscle function under anaerobic conditions. Unlike mammalian versions of the enzyme such as that found in rat liver, which require NADP as cofactor, the nematode version is an NAD-dependent enzyme. We report the crystallization of samples of the nematode enzyme at room temperature from pH 7.5 solutions of polyethylene glycol 4000 containing magnesium sulfate, NAD and sodium tartronate. Immediately upon mixing of protein and precipitant solutions, a marked precipitation of the protein occurs. Out of this precipitate, crystals appear almost immediately, most commonly in a truncated cube form that can grow to 0.5 to 0.7 mm on a cube edge in two to three days. The crystals are trigonal, space group P3(1)21 or its enantiomer, with a = b = 131.2(7) A, c = 152.6(9) A, and two monomers per asymmetric unit. Fresh crystals diffract X-radiation from a synchrotron source (lambda = 0.95 A) to about 3.0 A resolution. Rotational analysis of Patterson functions indicates that the malic enzyme tetramer has 222 symmetry.
The genes encoding the enzymes in the (D)-glucarate/galactarate catabolic pathway have been identified in the Escherichia coli genome. These encode, in three transcriptional units, (D)-glucarate dehydratase (GlucD), galactarate dehydratase, 5-keto-4-deoxy-(D)-glucarate aldolase, tartronate semialdehyde reductase, a glycerate kinase that generates 2-phosphoglycerate as product, and two hexaric acid transporters. We also have identified a gene proximal to that encoding GlucD that encodes a protein that is 72% identical in primary sequence to GlucD (GlucD-related protein or GlucDRP). However, whereas GlucD catalyzes the efficient dehydration of both (D)-glucarate and (L)-idarate as well as their epimerization, GlucDRP is significantly impaired in both reactions. Perhaps GlucDRP is an example of gene duplication and evolution in progress in the E. coli chromosome.
Abstract Effects toward electrocatalytic activity for glycerol oxidation of the modification of carbon supported Pd and Pt-based nanomaterials by bismuth were evaluated in alkaline medium. Pd/C, Pd0.9Bi0.1/C, Pt/C, Pt0.9Bi0.1/C and Pd0.45Pt0.45Bi0.1/C catalysts were synthesized by a colloidal route, and physical and electrochemical methods were used to characterize the structure and the surface of the catalysts (TEM, HRTEM, EDX, XRD, ICP-OES and XPS). It was shown that only a few amount of bismuth was deposited on the Pt and/or Pd surface, and that no alloy was formed between bismuth and the other metals. The onset potential of glycerol oxidation is ca. 0.15 V lower on Pt/C than on Pd/C. However, Pt-free Pd0.9Bi0.1/C catalyst presented the same catalytic activity than platinum catalyst. The Pt0.9Bi0.1/C led reaching a higher catalytic activity by shifting the oxidation onset potential by ca. 0.2 V toward lower potentials compared with the Pt/C catalyst. But, the replacing of half of the platinum atoms by palladium atoms in the Pd0.45Pt0.45Bi0.1/C material allowed achieving the same catalytic activity as with Pt0.9Bi0.1/C. Electrochemical experiments combined with in situ infrared spectroscopy measurements have shown that glycerol electrooxidation mechanism is independent on the catalyst, but dependent on the electrode potential. Chronoamperometry experiments combined with HPLC measurements showed that the main reaction products were glycerate, dihydroxyacetone and tartronate at low potentials, and that the increase of the electrode potential led to the formation of mesoxalate. For potential higher than 0.8 V vs RHE, the C–C bond cleavage occurred and oxalate and formiate were detected.
Pyruvate kinase from rabbit muscle catalyzes an ATP-dependent phosphorylation of glycolate to yield 2-phosphoglycolate (F. J. Kayne (1974) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 59, 8-13). An investigation of anologous reactions with other alpha-substituted carboxylic acids reveals several new substrates for such a phosphorylation reaction. Thus the alpha-hydroxy carboxylic acids L-lactate, D-lactate, DL-alpha-hydroxybutyrate, DL-alpha-hydroxyvalerate, L-glycerate, D-glycerate, DL-nitrolactate, and DL-beta-chlorolactate are phosphorylated on the alpha-hydroxy group to give the corresponding phosphoesters. Thioglycolate is also a slow substrate for phosphorylation of the thiol group to give the phosphothioglycolate, and DL-thiolactate is phosphorylated in a very slow reaction to give phosphothiolactate. beta-Hydroxypyruvate is a substrate; but, unlike the reaction with pyruvate, with beta-hydroxypyruvate the equilibrium for the reaction lies in favor of ADP and the phosphorylated product which appears from 31P NMR data to be tartronate-semialdehyde-2-phosphate. 31P NMR spectroscopy has been used to verify the identity of the products for all of the reactions. Steady-state kinetic constants have been obtained for some of the more rapid reactions. The reactions with glycolate, L-glycerate, and beta-hydroxypyruvate have kcat values that are close to that for phosphorylation of pyruvate in the reverse of the physiological reaction.
The use of LaPr 88/29 mutant of barley (Hordeum vulgare), which lacks NADH-preferring hydroxypyruvate reductase (HPR-1), allowed for an unequivocal demonstration of at least two related NADPH-preferring reductases in this species: HPR-2, reactive with both hydroxypyruvate and glyoxylate, and the glyoxylate specific reductase (GR-1). Antibodies against spinach HPR-1 recognized barley HPR-1 and partially reacted with barley HPR-2, but not GR-1, as demonstrated by Western immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation of proteins from crude leaf extracts. The mutant was deficient in HPR-1 protein. In partially purified preparations, the activities of HPR-1, HPR-2, and GR-1 could be differentiated by substrate kinetics and/or inhibition studies. Apparent K(m) values of HPR-2 for hydroxypyruvate and glyoxylate were 0.7 and 1.1 millimolar, respectively, while the K(m) of GR-1 for glyoxylate was 0.07 millimolar. The K(m) values of HPR-1, measured in wild type, for hydroxypyruvate and glyoxylate were 0.12 and 20 millimolar, respectively. Tartronate and P-hydroxypyruvate acted as selective uncompetitive inhibitors of HPR-2 (K(i) values of 0.3 and 0.4 millimolar, respectively), while acetohydroxamate selectively inhibited GR-1 activity. Nonspecific contributions of HPR-1 reactions in assays of HPR-2 and GR-1 activities were quantified by a direct comparison of rates in preparations from wild-type and LaPr 88/29 plants. The data are evaluated with respect to previous reports on plant HPR and GR activities and with respect to optimal assay procedures for individual HPR-1, HPR-2, and GR-1 rates in leaf preparations.
A microarray study has been employed to understand changes of gene expression in E. coli KD43162 resistant to ampicillin, ampicillin-sulbactam, piperacillin, piperacillin-tazobactam, cefazolin, cefepime, aztreonam, imipenem, meropenem, gentamicin, tobramycin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, fosfomycin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole except for amikacin using disk diffusion assay. Using Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF MS analyses, 36 kDa of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) was found to be deleted in the multidrug resistant E. coli KD 43162. Microarray analysis was used to determine up- and down-regulated genes in relation to multidrug resistant E. coli KD43162. Among the up-regulated genes, these genes were corresponded to express the proteins as penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), tartronate semialdehyde reductase, ethanolamine utilization protein, shikimate kinase I, allantoinase, predicted SAM-dependent methyltransferase, L-glutamine: D-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (GFAT), phospho-glucosamine mutase, predicted N-acetylmannosamine kinase, and predicted N-acetylmannosamine-6-P epimerase. Up-regulation of PBPs, one of primary target sites of antibiotics, might be responsible for the multidrug resistance in E. coli with increasing amount of target sites. Up-regulation of GFAT enzyme may be related to the up-regulation of PBPs because GFAT produces N-acetylglucosamine, a precursor of peptidoglycans. One of GFAT inhibitors, azaserine, showed a potent inhibition on the growth of E. coli KD43162. In conclusion, up-regulation of PBPs and GFATs with the loss of 36 kDa OMP refers the multidrug resistance in E. coli KD 43162.
The generalization that 'when a metabolic sequence involves consecutive nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide-dependent reactions, the dehydrogenases have the same stereospecificity' was tested and confirmed for three metabolic sequences. (1) NAD+-xylitol (D-xylulose) dehydrogenase and NADP+-xylitol (L-xylulose) dehydrogenase are both B-specific. (2) D-Mannitol 1-phosphate dehydrogenase and D-sorbitol 6-phosphate dehydrogenase are both B-specific. (3) meso Tartrate dehydrogenase and oxaloglycollate reductive decarboxylase are both A-specific. Other dehydrogenases associated with the metabolism of meso-tartrate in Pseudomonas putida, such as hydroxypyruvate reductase and tartronate semialdehyde reductase, were also shown to be A-specific. Malate dehydrogenase from Pseudomonas putida was A-specific, and the proposition is discussed that the common A-stereospecificity among the dehydrogenases involved in meso-tartrate metabolism reflects their origin from malate dehydrogenase.
Abstract A microarray study has been employed to understand changes of gene expression in E. coli KD43162 resistant to ampicillin, ampicillin-sulbactam, piperacillin, piperacillin-tazobactam, cefazolin, cefepime, aztreonam, imipenem, meropenem, gentamicin, tobramycin, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, moxifloxacin, fosfomycin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole except for amikacin using disk diffusion assay. Using Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF MS analyses, 36 kDa of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) was found to be deleted in the multidrug resistant E. coli KD 43162. Microarray analysis was used to determine up-and down-regulated genes in relation to multidrug resistant E. coli KD43162. Among the up-regulated genes, these genes were corresponded to express the proteins as penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), tartronate semialdehyde reductase, ethanolamine utilization protein, shikimate kinase I, allantoinase, predicted SAM-dependent methyltransferase, Lglutamine:D-fructose-6-phosphate aminotransferase (GFAT), phosphoglucosamine mutase, predicted N-acetylmannosamine kinase, and predicted N-acetylmannosamine-6-P epimerase. Up-regulation of PBPs, one of primary target sites of antibiotics, might be responsible for the multidrug resistance in E. coli with increasing amount of target sites. Up-regulation of GFAT enzyme may be related to the up-regulation of PBPs because GFAT produces N-acetylglucosamine, a precursor of peptidoglycans. One of GFAT inhibitors, azaserine, showed a potent inhibition on the growth of E. coli KD43162. In conclusion, up-regulation of PBPs and GFATs with the loss of 36 kDa OMP refers the multidrug resistance in E. coli KD 43162.
Abstract In the presence of magnesium, enolase catalyzes the dehydration of 2-phospho- d -glycerate (PGA) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) in glycolysis and the reverse reaction in gluconeogensis at comparable rates. The structure of human neuron specific enolase (hNSE) crystals soaked in PGA showed that the enzyme is active in the crystals and produced PEP; conversely soaking in PEP produced PGA. Moreover, the hNSE dimer contains PGA bound in one subunit and PEP or a mixture of PEP and PGA in the other. Crystals soaked in a mixture of competitive inhibitors tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (TSP) and lactic acid phosphate (LAP) showed asymmetry with TSP binding in the same site as PGA and LAP in the PEP site. Kinetic studies showed that the inhibition of NSE by mixtures of TSP and LAP is stronger than predicted for independently acting inhibitors. This indicates that in some cases inhibition of homodimeric enzymes by mixtures of inhibitors (“heteroinhibition”) may offer advantages over single inhibitors.
This paper pertains to the inhibition of lactic dehydrogenase by substances structurally related to its substrates, pyruvate and lactate. Oxalate, tartronate, and malonate inhibit the enzyme in a competitive manner towards lactate, and in a noncompetitive manner towards pyruvate. Phenoxyacetate causes simultaneous competitive and noncompetitive inhibition towards both lactate and pyruvate. The results obtained lead to the conclusion that, for their activation, pyruvate and lactate react with different sites on the enzyme surface.
Initial velocity, product inhibition, and substrate inhibition studies suggest that the endogenous lactate dehydrogenase activity of duck epsilon-crystallin follows an order Bi-Bi sequential mechanism. In the forward reaction (pyruvate reduction), substrate inhibition by pyruvate was uncompetitive with inhibition constant of 6.7 +/- 1.7 mM. In the reverse reaction (lactate oxidation), substrate inhibition by L-lactate was uncompetitive with inhibition constant of 158 +/- 25 mM. The cause of these inhibitions may be due to epsilon-crystallin-NAD(+)-pyruvate and epsilon-crystallin-NADH-L-lactate abortive ternary complex formation as suggested by the multiple inhibition studies. Pyruvate binds to free enzyme very poorly, with a very large dissociation constant. Bromopyruvate, fluoropyruvate, pyruvate methyl ester, and pyruvate ethyl ester are alternative substrates for pyruvate. 3-Acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide, nicotinamide 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide, and nicotinamide hypoxanthine dinucleotide serve as alternative coenzymes for epsilon-crystallin. All the above alternative substrates or coenzymes showed an intersecting initial-velocity pattern conforming to the order Bi--Bi kinetic mechanism. Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide, thionicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, and 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide acted as inhibitors for this enzymatic crystallin. The inhibitors were competitive versus NAD+ and noncompetitive versus L-lactate. alpha-NAD+ was a noncompetitive inhibitor with respect to the usual beta-NAD+. D-Lactate, tartronate, and oxamate were strong dead-end inhibitors for the lactate dehydrogenase activity of epsilon-crystallin. Both D-lactate and tartronate were competitive inhibitors versus L-lactate while oxamate was a competitive inhibitor versus pyruvate. We conclude that the structural requirements for the substrate and coenzyme of epsilon-crystallin are similar to those of other dehydrogenases and that the carboxamide carbonyl group of the nicotinamide moiety is important for the coenzyme activity.
Tonoplast vesicles were prepared from leaf mesophyll homogenates of the crassulacean-acid-metabolism plant Kalanchoë daigremontiana Hamet et Perrier de la Bâthie to study the effects of anions on ATP- and inorganic-pyrophosphate (PPi)-dependent H(+) transport. In the presence of gramicidin, substrate hydrolysis by the tonoplast ATPase was characteristically stimulated by chloride and inhibited by nitrate, but was unaffected by malate and a wide range of other organic-acid anions; the PPiase was anion-insensitive. Malate was more effective than chloride both in stimulating ATP- and PPi-dependent vesicle acidification (measured as quinacrine-fluorescence quenching) and in dissipating a pre-existing inside-positive membrane potential (measured as oxonol-V-fluorescence quenching), indicating that malate was more readily transported across the tonoplast. Certain other four-carbon dicarboxylates also supported high rates of vesicle acidification, their order of effectiveness being fumarate ≫ malate ∼-succinate > oxalacetate ∼- tartrate; the five-carbon dicarboxylates 2-oxoglutarate and glutarate were also transported, although at lower rates. Experiments with non-naturally occurring anions indicated that the malate transporter was not stereospecific, but that it required the trans-carboxyl configuration for transport. Shorter-chain or longer-chain dicarboxylates were not transported, and neither were monocarboxylates, the amino-acid anions aspartate and glutamate, nor the tricarboxylate isocitrate. The non-permeant anions maleate and tartronate appeared to be competitive inhibitors of malate transport but did not affect chloride transport, indicating that malate and chloride influx at the tonoplast might be mediated by separate transporters.
Abstract We determined the kinetics of the reaction of human neuronal enolase and yeast enolase 1 with the slowly-reacting chromophoric substrate d -tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (TSP), each in tris (tris (hydroxymethyl) aminomethane) and another buffer at several Mg2+ concentrations, 50 or 100 μM, 1 mM and 30 mM. All data were biphasic, and could be satisfactorily fit, assuming either two successive first-order reactions or two independent first-order reactions. Higher Mg2+ concentrations reduce the relative magnitude of the slower reaction. The results are interpreted in terms of a catalytically significant interaction between the two subunits of these enzymes.
The activity of NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase was inhibited by EDTA, EGTA and other nitrogen-containing polycarboxylate Ca2+ chelators in the absence and in the presence of ADP by a mechanism that could not be attributed solely to the removal of free Ca2+. Carboxymethyltartronate (2-oxapropane-1,1,3-tricarboxylate), an oxygen ether polycarboxylate chelator, did not inhibit when ADP was absent. The activation by ADP, a positive effector of the enzyme, decreased with increasing concentration of carboxymethyltartronate, paralleling the removal of free Ca2+ by this chelator. The following were found when free Ca2+ was decreased to negligible concentrations (5-50 nM) with carboxymethyltartronate. (1) Free Ca2+ enhanced, but was not absolutely required for, activation by ADP. (2) Activation of enzyme activity by magnesium citrate neither required nor was increased by Ca2+ when ADP was absent. However, the potentiation of citrate activation by ADP was facilitated by free Ca2+. (3) The reversal of NADPH inhibition of enzyme activity by ADP did not absolutely require Ca2+, but it was enhanced by free Ca2+. (4) The inhibition of enzyme activity by NADH was not reversed by ADP either with or without Ca2+.
Initial velocity studies in both the direction of malate decarboxylation and pyruvate carboxylation indicate that the NAD/sup +/-malic enzyme from Ascaris suum possesses a sequential kinetic mechanism. The V/sub f//V/sub r/ was 30. The K/sub m/ values for malate and NAD/sup +/, substrates of the forward reaction, were 1.9 +- 0.3 mM and 55 +- 7 ..mu..m, respectively. The K/sub m/ values for the substrates in the reverse reaction varied because of the inability to saturate the pyruvate or CO/sub 2/ binding sites. In general, the K/sub m/ for NADH was essentially the same as for NAD/sup +/, but the values for pyruvate and CO/sub 2/ ranged from 5 to 10 mM and 30 to 60 mM, respectively. All product inhibition studies resulted in linear noncompetitive patterns except for the nucleotides, which were competitive. Tartronate, oxalacetate, and other inhibitors competitive with respect to malate were used as dead-end inhibitors versus NAD/sup +/ and were noncompetitive. These results differed markedly from studies on other malic enzymes and suggested that the ascarid malic enzyme did not have an ordered mechanism, but exhibited some randomness in binding of malate and NAD/sup +/. Confirmation of random substrate binding was obtained by the method ofmore » isotope partitioning. Kinetically viable binary complexes were found to occur with both (/sup 14/C)malate and (/sup 14/C)NAD/sup +/ and the metal enzyme complex. NAD/sup +/ and malate dissociate from this complex 2.3 to 2.6 and 4.6 to 11.5 times faster, respectively, than the V/(E/sub t/).« less
Glyoxylate, formed as a result of allantoin degradation, is converted by Hyphomicrobium species to glycerate via tartronate semialdehyde. Glyoxylate carboligase and tartronate semialdehyde reductase, the two enzymes involved, are present only in cells grown on allantoin as nitrogen source.
1. Micrococcus denitrificans utilized glycollate as sole carbon source for aerobic growth. Glyoxylate was utilized less well, and though glycine alone did not support growth it enhanced growth on glyoxylate. 2. During growth on glycollate, (14)C was incorporated from [2-(14)C]glycollate into glycine and thence into aspartate, malate and glutamate. No phosphoglycerate was labelled at the earliest times. 3. Glyoxylate was the first product of glycollate utilization, and glycollate oxidase was inducibly formed on transfer of the organism to glycollate-containing media. 4. Extracts of glycollate-grown M. denitrificans contained negligible glyoxylate-carboligase activity and only low tartronate semialdehyde-reductase activity. 5. erythro-beta-Hydroxyaspartate is a key intermediate in glyoxylate utilization by this organism. Enzymes catalysing (a) the synthesis of erythro-beta-hydroxyaspartate from glyoxylate and glycine, and (b) the conversion of erythro-beta-hydroxyaspartate into oxaloacetate, were inducibly formed during growth on glycollate and on other substrates yielding glyoxylate. Methods for the assay of these enzymes were developed. 6. It is concluded that in M. denitrificans the biosynthesis of cell materials from glycollate is accomplished by the ;beta-hydroxyaspartate pathway', a novel metabolic route that may also perform a catabolic role in glyoxylate oxidation.
Isocitrate lyase from both young and old free living nematodes (Turbatrix aceti) has been purified and compared. The "old" enzyme consists of the same five isozymes as the "young" preparation, but with quantitative differences. The enzyme shows an age-related decline in specific activity. Use of antibodies has confirmed the accumulation of cross-reacting material in old organisms as found by Gershon and Gershon ((1970) Nature 227, 1214), using crude homogenates. Km, molecular weight, subunit size, and behavior toward the inhibitors oxalate, malonate, and tartronate all appear unchanged. Although the enzyme isolated from old organisms has a sharply reduced specific activity, it binds as well to an affinity column as does "young" enzyme. It is tentatively concluded that the loss of specific activity in the "old" enzyme is due to the presence of partially active molecules, rather than to a mixture of active and inactive molecules.
A process for preparing an aromatic a-hydroxyketone of formula (I) (see formula) wherein R is H or C1 - 6, and Ar is aryl, wherein said aryl optionally contains one or more selected heteroatoms N, S, and O, and optionally consisting of fused rings and said alkyl and aryl are optionally substituted with 1 to 3 substituents selected from C1 - 3, C1 - 3, F, Cl, Br, I, OH, NH2, CN and NR1R2, wherein R1 and R2 may be independently H or C1 - 4, and said C1 - 3 may be further substituted with a substituent chosen from F, Cl, Br, I, and OH; which process comprises reacting an aldehyde of formula (II) (see formula) with a 2-oxoacid of formula (III) (see formula) wherein Ar and R in formulas (II) and (III) have as defined for formula (I), in the presence of a mixture comprising 2-hydroxy-3-oxoacid synthase chosen from AHAS (acetoxihidroxiacido synthase) and TSAS (tartronate semialdehyde synthase), and thiamin pyrophosphate (TPP), flavin adenine dinucleotide ( FAD), metal ions, and a buffer.
Pseudomonas putida JM 37 metabolized glyoxylate at a specific rate of 55 g/g dry biomass/day. In order to investigate their role, three genes encoding enzymes that potentially convert glyoxylate were disrupted, namely tartronate semialdehyde synthase (gcl), malate synthase (glcB) and isocitrate lyase (aceA). Strains with transposon insertion in either of these genes were isolated from a 50,000 clone library employing a PCR-guided enrichment strategy. Further, all three respective double mutants were constructed via site-directed insertion of a knock-out plasmid. Neither mutation of gcl, glcB, aceA nor any of the respective double mutation influenced glyoxylic acid conversion, indicating that P. putida JM37 may possess other enzymes and pathways for glyoxylate metabolism.
Glycerol is a massive byproduct of biodiesel fabrication, which decreases its price and increases the risks of inadequate disposal. In this sense, more environmentally friendly instruments and processes using glycerol are required to make this matrix more valuable. Here, a 3D-printed electrolyzer was developed and tested for long-period glycerol electrolysis in an alkaline medium. The new electrolyzer contains only three mobile parts and can be manufactured in less than 4 h using ∼30 g of polylactic acid filament, with a total cost of less than US $5. This easily built and inexpensive reduced-scale electrolyzer has the advantage of using only a few milliliters of solution to perform tests for electrosynthesis. We synthesized Pd nanocubes to modify a glassy carbon working electrode, which was used for glycerol electrolysis. We found a remarkable selectivity of 99% toward tartronate production, which was induced by the extended (100) surface of Pd in the alkaline medium. Hence, we report a new 3D-printed pl...
Pseudomonas putida JM37 metabolized glyoxylate at a specific rate of 55 g/g dry biomass/day. In order to investigate their role, three genes encoding enzymes that are potentially involved in the conversion of glyoxylate were disrupted; namely, tartronate semialdehyde synthase (gcl), malate synthase (glcB), and isocitrate lyase (aceA). Strains with transposon insertion in either of these genes were isolated from a 50,000 clone library employing a PCR-guided enrichment strategy. In addition, all three double mutants were constructed via targeted insertion of a knock-out plasmid. Neither mutation of gcl, glcB, and aceA nor any of the respective double mutations influenced glyoxylic acid conversion, indicating that P. putida JM37 may possess other enzymes and pathways for glyoxylate metabolism.
Keywords: Glyoxylic acid, biotransformation, Pseudomonas putida, tartronate semialdehyde synthase, malate synthase, isocitrate lyase Glyoxylic acid (glyoxylate) is a key intermediate in many metabolic pathways; for example, the "glyoxylate cycle," which enables organisms to convert fatty acids into carbohydrates. It has diverse industrial applications [25] and is currently synthesized by chemical processes [22] . Glyoxylic acid can also be produced enzymatically from glycolic acid [4, 6, 7, 22, 25] . To accumulate glyoxylate from other cheap carbon sources via microbial transformations, pathways that facilitate the further conversion of glyoxylate may need to be blocked. One approach is to disrupt genes involved in glyoxylate conversion.
In the "glycerate pathway" [12] , tartronate semialdehyde synthase (Gcl) catalyzes the formation of tartronate semialdehyde from two molecules of glyoxylate, which then feeds into the TCA cycle via acetyl-CoA. In the "dicarboxylic acid pathway" [14] , malate synthase (GlcB) adds an acetyl-CoA to glyoxylate to produce malate, followed by malate metabolism for energy and acetyl-CoA regeneration. Isocitrate lyase (AceA) can facilitate the addition of succinate to glyoxylate to produce isocitrate [1] , which can then be oxidized for energy generation. The current study investigated the effects of gcl, glcB, and aceA disruption on glyoxylate conversion by P. putida JM37.
Sol-immobilisation has been one of the most popular methodologies for the synthesis of catalysts for glycerol oxidation [2, 26] . It allows mono and bimetallic nanoparticles to be synthesised in solution with controlled size, shape and morphology prior the deposition onto a support [20, 27] . The main drawback, however, is the presence of stabilising agents such as polymers or surfactants, needed to achieve good control on the nanoparticles size, which could have an influence on the catalytic activity and selectivity [28] [29] [30] . Therefore, efforts to assess the influence of the different methodologies for polymer removal without changing the nanoparticles morphology include, heat treatment [31] , intensive washing [32] and UV-light irradiation under ozone atmosphere [33] . Given the many drawbacks of the presence of stabiliser, we previously proposed a new synthetic methodology for the preparation of Au and AuPd nanoparticle catalysts by sol-immobilisation without the addition of stabilisers [27] . The prepared catalysts showed similar catalytic activity with variation in glycerate to tartronate ratio to the traditional PVA stabilised catalysts for glycerol oxidation but showed lager particle size distributions.
This paper reports a chemometric study of effects of the catalyst preparation method and reaction conditions on the efficiency of glycerol oxidation catalyzed by gold nanoparticles supported on activated carbon using H2O2 as oxidant. Factorial designs and principal component analysis were used for the evaluation of experimental conditions and reaction performance. Evaluating catalyst preparation conditions we found that larger Au nanoparticles are obtained using HAuCl4 in higher concentration. Glycerol conversion and production of glycerate and tartronate were higher using catalysts prepared with low polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) to Au ratio and low Au content. Higher HAuCl4 concentrations resulted in larger Au nanoparticles, which contributed to higher glycolate production. Evaluating reaction conditions we found that the influence of H2O2 to glycerol ratio was insignificant. Glycerol conversion and production of glycerate and tartronate were higher at lower temperature. Increasing H2O2 to glycerol ratio contributed to higher glycolate production. Glycerol to Au ratio has a smaller influence on the reaction course.
The role of organic matter in mechanisms of base metal transport during Mississippi Valley-type mineralization is not well understood. Evidence from field, experimental, and theoretical studies suggests that ore metals may be transported as organic complexes in Mississippi Valley-type ore fluids. However, specific ligands capable of concentrating significant quantities of lead and zinc in these ore solutions have not been identified. As a preliminary evaluation of metal transport by metal-organic complexing, activities of lead and zinc complexes involving nine carboxylate ligands (acetate, propionate, n-butyrate, phthalate, oxalate, tartronate, malate, D-tartrate, and salicylate) have been calculated for PbS- and ZnS-saturated, average ore solutions (those proposed by Giordano and Barnes, 1981) at 100 degrees and 200 degrees C. Calculated concentrations of lead and zinc in all of the complexes considered are well below the 10 ppm (10 (super -4) ) molal) minimum required to form an ore deposit.To ascertain the nature of other organic ligands which may have contributed significantly to base metal transport during Mississippi Valley-type mineralization, speciations of acetate, phthalate, and salicylate were calculated for three different average ore fluids at, or near, 100 degrees C. Results suggest that for weakly alkaline, sulfide-rich ore solutions, organic ligands should have stability constants for 1:1 and 1:2 base metal complexes of at least 10 10 and 10 20 , respectively. Such high stabilities would not be required if actual ore fluids were more acid or more oxidized, contained lower amounts of inorganic sulfide, or contained specific organic ligands at concentrations greater than 10 (super -4) molal. In addition to carboxylate, or similar complexes, metal-organic sulfide complexes may have provided a mechanism to transport significant quantities of lead, zinc, and reduced sulfur in Mississippi Valley-type ore solutions.
A sensitive and specific spectrophotometric assay was developed to determine levels of D-glucarate in human serum. This assay makes use of the Escherichia coli glucarate catabolic enzymes D-glucarate dehydrase, alpha-keto-beta-deoxy-D-glucarate aldolase, and tartronate semialdehyde (TSA) reductase, to convert D-glucarate to equimolar quantities of pyruvate and TSA. In a one-tube reaction that included NADH, lactate dehydrogenase, and the three E. coli enzymes, 1 mumol of D-glucarate was quantitatively converted to 1 mumol each of D-glycerate and L-lactate with concomitant utilization of 2 mumol of NADH. Using this method, D-glucarate in serum was measured, along with quantitative recovery of authentic D-glucarate from duplicate serum samples to which it had been added. Glucarate is a major serum organic acid, approximating blood pyruvate levels previously determined by others.
Abstract The crystal structure of the mitochondrial NAD-malic enzyme from Ascaris suum, in a quaternary complex with NADH, tartronate, and magnesium has been determined to 2.0-A resolution. The structure closely resembles the previously determined structure of the same enzyme in binary complex with NAD. However, a significant difference is observed within the coenzyme-binding pocket of the active site with the nicotinamide ring of NADH molecule rotating by 198° over the C-1–N-1 bond into the active site without causing significant movement of the other catalytic residues. The implications of this conformational change in the nicotinamide ring to the catalytic mechanism are discussed. The structure also reveals a binding pocket for the divalent metal ion in the active site and a binding site for tartronate located in a highly positively charged environment within the subunit interface that is distinct from the active site. The tartronate binding site, presumably an allosteric site for the activator fumarate, shows striking similarities and differences with the activator site of the human NAD-malic enzyme that has been reported recently. Thus, the structure provides additional insights into the catalytic as well as the allosteric mechanisms of the enzyme.
Abstract This work develops a one-dimensional model of an alkaline anion-exchange membrane direct glycerol fuel cell (AEM-DGFC) for cogeneration of tartronate and electricity. The model is validated against steady state and dynamic experiments, and shows good agreement. Steady state modeling includes anode and cathode losses and predicts the single cell polarization and power density curves. Coupled mass transport, charge transport, and electrochemical kinetics predict the effects of varying reactant concentration and diffusion layer porosity on single cell performance. The results show that anode overpotential is the major source of loss at middle to high current density regions, due to limited glycerol diffusion at the catalyst layer. Furthermore, the dynamic response of AEM-DGFC to step changes in current density is simulated by considering time-dependent species transport and double-layer capacitance charging. Analysis of dynamic simulation reveals that the liquid-phase reactant diffusion is a key factor influencing the transient AEM-DGFC behavior and is very sensitive to diffusion layer design. This new numerical analysis of a glycerol-fed fuel cell demonstrates that a simple, single oxidation product model can successfully predict the steady state and dynamic losses.
Yeast has two enolase isozymes (called 1 and 2), either of which suffices for growth. We cloned DNA encoding the enolase 1 protein coding and promoter regions flanked by BamHI termini using the PCR. The DNA, which contained no nucleotide base changes altering the protein sequence, was cloned into the multicopy shuttle vector pRS314 and transformed into a yeast strain with a deletion in its enolase 1 gene. The resulting plasmid-containing strain makes enolase 1 in quantities which depend on cell growth. A ‘charge shuttle’ mechanism of action of enolase based on X-ray crystallographic evidence (Lebioda and Stec, Biochemistry 30 : 2817, 1991) involves Glu-168 accepting a proton from a water molecule that in turn accepts a proton from a carbon-2 of the substrate. We prepared the E168Q mutant of enolase 1 by oligonucleotide-directed site-directed mutagenesis. Its identity was confirmed by N-terminal sequence analysis, HPLC on Superose 12, SDS-gel electrophoresis, and the sequence of the mutated DNA protein-coding region. The E168Q mutant has approximately 0.01% of the activity of native enolase. It binds substrate/product, AEP (3-aminoenolpyruvate-2-phosphate, the 3-amino analogue of the product phosphoenolpyruvate) and TSP (D-tartronate semialdehyde-2-phosphate, the aldehyde analogue of the substrate 2-phosphoglycerate), the latter two at least with affinities similar to those of the native enzyme. The E168Q enolase also produces absorbance changes in the analogues. The reaction with AEP is consistent with the ‘charge shuttle’ mechanism; the reaction with TSP, which presumably requires proton removal from carbon-2, is complex but shows a very slow phase consistent with expectations. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
In order to estimate the influence of gut bacteria on animal metabolism, the excretion of organic acids, as monitored by gas-liquid chromatography, was compared in the urines of conventional and germ-free rats. Rats were maintained on a chemically simplified diet in order to minimize the effect of strictly exogenous compounds on the organic acid profile. Initial analysis of the excretion rates of 68 compounds, found reproducibly in the profile, indicated significant day-to-day and rat-to-rat variation, suggesting that haphazard comparison of experimental groups of animals might yield spurious differences with no biological significance. When repeated measures of the profile were analysed by a random effects analysis of variance model, no compound was found exclusively in the urine of either conventional or germ-free rats. Nevertheless, tricarballylate was significantly higher and both tartronate and vanillate significantly lower in conventional rat urine. The flora was implicated in these differences because caecal contents of conventional rats were found to convert such tricarboxylic acids as cis- and trans-aconitate to tricarballylate and to cause the dissimilation of both vanillate and tartronate, the latter compound being of dietary origin.
Abstract A potential-controlled glycerol oxidation to tartronate or mesoxalate was demonstrated on Au nanoparticle catalysts in a self-designed anion-exchange membrane electro-catalytic flow reactor. The investigation clearly shows that by tuning the anode potential from 0.35 to 0.65 V, the selectivity to tartronate dropped from 79% to 26%, while that to mesoxalate increased from 0% to 57%. The tests also indicate that the elongation of reaction time will only increase the glycerol conversion, having little effects on the product distribution. The work may open a new route for the controllable oxidation of biorenewable polyols to valuable chemicals.
Palladium-based nanoparticles were prepared using mild microwave-assisted heating. The activity of carbon supported PdM (M = Mn and Fe) toward glycerol oxidation in alkaline medium was studied by coupling electrochemical, analytical and in situ spectroscopic techniques. The complementary findings showed that glycerol was converted into oxalate, tartronate, glycerate, glycolate and formate. The ex situ analytical methods (liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry) were helpful to reveal glycerate as the major reaction product on PdM/C anodes, while from in situ infrared spectroscopy measurements no irreversible adsorbed poisoning species was detected in glycerol or intermediate oxidation to carbonate at the prepared electrodes. The correlation of the analytical and physicochemical (XRD, EDX and TEM) results concerned the shift of the onset potential toward lower values and the high Faradaic currents due to electronic structures provided by the Mn and Fe contents to the Pd based materials. Accordingly, glycerol is a sustainable raw material, which can be used in cogeneration processes for renewable energy sources and selective production of added-value molecules.
Zymonic acid (1) is an artefact derived by decarboxylation from a natural metabolite [probably (3)], the biosynthesis of which from labelled precursors has been studied: malonic and methylmalonic acids are incorporated into different portions of the metabolite molecule, and from studies with labelled acetates and labelled glucoses, it is inferred that the metabolite arises from a derivative of methylmalonate and from a C3 unit, probably tartronate (4) or a close derivative.
NADPH-dependent glyoxylate reductases from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtGLYR) convert both glyoxylate and succinic semialdehyde into their corresponding hydroxyacid equivalents. The primary sequence of cytosolic AtGLYR1 reveals several sequence elements that are consistent with the β-HAD (β-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase) protein family, whose members include 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase, tartronate semialdehyde reductase and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. Here, site-directed mutagenesis was utilized to identify catalytically important amino acid residues for glyoxylate reduction in AtGLYR1. Kinetic studies and binding assays established that Lys170 is essential for catalysis, Phe231, Asp239, Ser121 and Thr95 are more important in substrate binding than in catalysis, and Asn174 is more important in catalysis. The low activity of the mutant enzymes precluded kinetic studies with succinic semialdehyde. The crystal structure of AtGLYR1 in the absence of substrate was solved to 2.1Å by molecular replacement using a previously unrecognized member of the β-HAD family, cytokine-like nuclear factor, thereby enabling the 3-D structure of the protein to be modeled with substrate and co-factor. Structural alignment of AtGLYR1 with β-HAD family members provided support for the essentiality of Lys170, Phe173, Asp239, Ser121, Asn174 and Thr95 in the active site and preliminary support for an acid/base catalytic mechanism involving Lys170 as the general acid and a conserved active-site water molecule. This information established that AtGLYR1 is a member of the β-HAD protein family. Sequence and activity comparisons indicated that AtGLYR1 and the plastidial AtGLYR2 possess structural features that are absent in Arabidopsis hydroxypyruvate reductases and probably account for their stronger preference for glyoxylate over hydroxypyruvate.
Abstract 1. 1. The inactivation of citrate lyase (citrate-oxaloacetate lyase, EC 4.1.3.6) by oxaloacetate has been investigated. 2. 2. Studies of the pH profiles of inactivation at pH 7–9 with varying total oxaloacetate and magnesium concentrations show that the magnesium complexes of enolic oxaloacetate are involved. 3. 3. The inhibitory effects of the following structural analogues of the keto and enol forms of oxaloacetate were examined: l -malate, α,α-dimethyloxaloacetate, tartronate, α,α-difluorooxaloacetate, pyruvate, ketomalonate, and isomalate. These results, and the effect of other divalent metal cations, indicate that the site of the inactivation is identical with the active site for citrate cleavage. 4. 4. The inactivation is irreversible and is time and concentration dependent. Free oxaloacetate does not inactivate the enzyme. 5. 5. The inactivation phenomenon has high structural specificity, requiring a straight-chain, four-carbon dicarboxylic acid with an ionisable α-hydroxy group, and the presence of a divalent metal cation.
The genes encoding the enzymes in the D-glucarate and D-galactarate pathways have been identified in the Escherichia coli genome and found to be distributed in apparently three transcriptional units ( Fig. 1) (1), and tartronate semialdehyde reductase (9) showed that both enzyme systems were induced by growth on either of the carbon sources. D-Glycerate was the best inducer (Table 1) .
Isolation and mapping of pleiotropic mutants. To search for a common regulator, 10 4 cells of strain MC4100 bearing ⌽(garD-lacZ) were mutated by ethyl methanesulfonate (14) and screened for blue and white colonies on glycerol plates containing D-glucarate and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-␤-Dgalactoside. From among the white colonies we selected those that were unable to grow on D-glucarate, D-galactarate, or D-glycerate but able to grow on other carbon sources. These cells displayed no ␤-galactosidase activity and no detectable galactarate or glucarate dehydratase, tartronate semialdehyde reductase, or glycerate kinase activities when grown under any of the inducing conditions. The mutation in one of the isolates (strain JA176) was mapped by conjugation using the Hfr strain collection of Wanner (19). The 68% recombination with the Tn10 marker of strain BW6156 and the 37% recombination with the Tn10 marker present in strain BW6164 allowed us to
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the determination of 2-keto-3-deoxy-D-glucarate aldolase. The enzyme is usually assayed by disappearance of the substrate. The formyl pyruvate formed by cleavage of ketodeoxyglucarate with periodate forms a chromogen with thiobarbituric acid that is measured at 551 mμ. The assay is linear with respect both to time and to enzyme concentration until 40% of the substrate present at zero time has been utilized. Because this assay is based on substrate disappearance, it must first be establishedthat pyruvate, rather than α-ketoglutarate, and tartronate semialdehyde are indeed the products. The pyruvate formation can be readily measured spectrophotometrically by coupling with lactic dehydrogenase and measuring the reduced diphosphopyridine nucleotide (DPNH) utilization. One unit is defined as the amount of enzyme that catalyzes the utilization of 1 micromole of ketodeoxyglucarate per minute under these conditions. An extinction coefficient of 60,000 at 551 mμ for ketodeoxyglucarate in the periodatethiobarbituric acid test is employed. The specific activity is expressed as units per milligram protein. Protein is determined either spectrophotometrically or nephelometrically with sulfosalicylic acid, when the protein concentration is low or when the protein is in the presence of high concentrations of certain ions, such as Tris, acetate, or glutathione, that interfere with the spectrophotometric method.
Abstract The regulation of human mitochondrial NAD(P) + -dependent malic enzyme (m-NAD-ME) by ATP and fumarate may be crucial for the metabolism of glutamine for energy production in rapidly proliferating tissues and tumors. Here we report the crystal structure at 2.2 A resolution of m-NAD-ME in complex with ATP, Mn 2+ , tartronate, and fumarate. Our structural, kinetic, and mutagenesis studies reveal unexpectedly that ATP is an active-site inhibitor of the enzyme, despite the presence of an exo binding site. The structure also reveals the allosteric binding site for fumarate in the dimer interface. Mutations in this binding site abolished the activating effects of fumarate. Comparison to the structure in the absence of fumarate indicates a possible molecular mechanism for the allosteric function of this compound.
l-Talarate/galactarate dehydratase (TGD) is a member of the enolase superfamily of enzymes and catalyzes the dehydration of either meso-galactarate or l-talarate to form 5-keto-4-deoxy-d-glucarate (5-KDG). To facilitate study of this enzyme and other galactarate dehydratases, a continuous circular dichroism-based assay has been developed. Using recombinant enzyme from Salmonella typhimurium (StTGD), the rates of StTGD-catalyzed conversion of m-galactarate to 5-KDG were determined by following the change in ellipticity at 323 nm. The apparent molar ellipticity ([θ]323) for the 5-KDG formed was determined to be 202 ± 2 deg cm2 dmol-1, which was used to convert observed rates (Δθ/Δt) into concentration-dependent rates (Δc/Δt). The kinetic parameters Km, kcat, and kcat/Km were 0.38 ± 0.05 mM, 4.8 ± 0.1 s-1, and 1.3 (±0.2) × 104 M-1s-1, respectively. These values are in excellent agreement with those published previously [Yew, W.S. et al. (2007) Biochemistry46, 9564-9577] using a coupled assay system. To demonstrate the utility of the assay, the inhibition constant (Ki = 10.7 ± 0.4 mM) was determined for the competitive inhibitor tartronate. The continuous CD-based assay offers a practical and efficient alternative method to the coupled assay that requires access to 5-KDG aldolase, and to the labor-intensive, fixed-time assays.
The effects of the alkali cations Na+ and K+ were investigated in the alkaline electrochemical oxidation of glycerol over Pd nanoparticles (NPs) deposited on functionalized carbon nanotubes (CNTs). The electrocatalytic activity was assessed by cyclic voltammetry revealing a lower overpotential of glycerol oxidation for nitrogen-functionalized Pd/NCNTs compared with oxygen-functionalized Pd/OCNTs. Whereas significantly lower current densities were observed for Pd/OCNT in NaOH than in KOH in agreement with stronger non-covalent interactions on the Pd surface, Pd/NCNT achieved an approximately three-times higher current density in NaOH than in KOH. In situ electrochemistry/IR spectroscopy was applied to unravel the product distribution as a function of the applied potential in NaOH and KOH. The IR spectra exhibited strongly changing band patterns upon varying the potential between 0.77 and 1.17 V vs RHE: at low potentials oxidized C3 species such as mesoxalate and tartronate were formed predominantly, and with increasing potentials C2 and C1 species originating from C–C bond cleavage were identified. The tendency to produce carbonate was found to be less pronounced in KOH. The less favored formation of highly oxidized C3 species and of carbonate is deduced to be the origin of the lower current densities in the cyclic voltammograms (CVs) for Pd/NCNT in KOH. The enhanced current densities in NaOH are rationalized by the presence of Na+ ions bound to the basic nitrogen species in the NCNT support. Adsorbed Na+ ions can form complexes with the organic molecules, presumably enhanced by the chelate effect. In this way, the organic molecules are assumed to be bound more tightly to the NCNT support in close proximity to the Pd NPs facilitating their oxidation.
Structural analogs of the substrate oxalacetate were examined as potential substrates and inhibitors for chicken liver mitochondrial phosphoenolpyruvate (P-enolpyruvate) carboxykinase. Steady-state kinetics were employed to characterize the inhibitory effects of these substrate analogs with the enzyme. Assays were carried out in both carboxylation and decarboxylation reaction directions. Pyruvate, beta-hydroxypyruvate, beta-mercaptopyruvate, beta-fluoropyruvate, DL-lactate, glycolate, glycoaldehyde, glyoxylate, glyphosate, and DL-aspartate showed no inhibitory effects by steady-state kinetics. Oxalate, acetopyruvate, and DL-, D-, and L-glycerate exhibited weak noncompetitive inhibition of the P-enolpyruvate carboxykinase-catalyzed reaction. DL-3-Nitro-2-hydroxypropionic acid, 3-nitro-2-oxopropionic acid, DL-malate, malonate, tartronate, and alpha-ketobutyrate all show weak inhibition with estimated inhibition constants greater than 20 nM. Several of these compounds were investigated by 31P NMR to determine if they function as phosphoryl acceptors for GTP. None of the compounds tested act as phosphoryl acceptors in the enzyme-catalyzed reaction. Chicken liver mitochondrial phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase shows a remarkably high degree of specificity at the binding site of oxalacetate.
Compared to conventional catalysts, such as Pt and Pd, Au catalysts perform better in alcohol oxidation reactions and are thus becoming progressively more important in that context. The production of biodiesel is increasing in the world, and this also means that there is a growing amount of glycerol being produced, which represents an abundant and inexpensive new raw material. It is necessary to purify this by-product, but processing of all the available glycerol cannot be achieved by the pharmaceutical industry alone, and hence other options must be found. The present investigation was performed to evaluate the transformation of glycerol using a Au catalyst in a methanol medium with atmospheric air as oxidant. The primary product of this esterification is methyl glycerate which can be further transformed into dimethyl tartronate and dimethyl mesoxalate. The effects of reaction temperature, air pressure, amount of catalyst, base content, reaction time, and reuse of the catalyst were analyzed and compared to provide a better understanding of the Au catalyst and the reaction itself. Use of 10 % (w/w) catalyst gave good results regarding final conversion (>75 %), selectivity toward the desired products, and yields.
Abstract A modification of the naphthoresorcinol method enabled the quantitative determination of glycolaldehyde in the presence of hydroxypyruvate and tartronate semialdehyde. Moreover, a number of compounds which reacted in the original method did not give color formation.
Stepwise stability constants have been determined for the 1:1 and 1:2 Eu3+:mandelate− and Eu3+:tartronate2− complexes in water. Measurements were made at low ionic strength and the temperature was 25 °C. The solvent-extraction–radiotracer method was used.For the mandelate system at an ionic strength of 0.104, K1 = 5.0 × 102, K2 = 1.58 × 102, and K1:K2 = 3.1. The K1:K2 ratios suggest monodentate ligandcy.The stepwise stability constants for the two stages of tartronate ion association are: K1 = 7.1 ( ± 15%) × 104 and K1K2 = 4.2 ( ± 5%) × 108. The magnitudes of the stability constants suggest that tartronate is a tridentate ligand. The stability constant ratios are discussed with reference to the ratios for piperidinedicarboxylate and iminodiacetate complexes.
NADP(+)-dependent serine dehydrogenase [EC 1.1.1.-], which catalyzes the oxidation of the hydroxyl group of serine to form 2-aminomalonate semialdehyde, was purified to homogeneity from a crude extract of Agrobacterium tumefaciens ICR 1600. The enzyme had a molecular mass of about 100 kDa and consisted of four identical subunits. In addition to L-serine, D-serine, L-glycerate, D-glycerate, and 2-methyl-DL-serine were substrates. However, O-methyl-DL-serine and L-threonine were inert. The enzyme showed maximal activity at about pH 9 for the oxidation of L-serine. The enzyme required NADP+ as a coenzyme, NAD+ was inert. The enzyme was not inhibited by EDTA, o-phenanthroline, or alpha,alpha'-dipyridyl, but was inhibited by HgCl2, p-chloromercuribenzoate, L-cysteine, D-cysteine, malonate, 2-methylmalonate, and tartronate. The Michaelis constants for L-serine, D-serine, and NADP+ were 42, 44, and 0.029 mM, respectively.
The kinetic mechanism of the cytosolic NADP(+)-dependent malic enzyme from cultured human breast cancer cell line was studied by steady-state kinetics. In the direction of oxidative decarboxylation, the initial-velocity and product-inhibition studies indicate that the enzyme reaction follows a sequential ordered Bi-Ter kinetic mechanism with NADP+ as the leading substrate followed by L-malate. The products are released in the order of CO2, pyruvate, and NADPH. The enzyme is unstable at high salt concentration and elevated temperature. However, it is stable for at least 20 min under the assay conditions. Tartronate (2-hydroxymalonate) was found to be a noncompetitive inhibitor for the enzyme with respect to L-malate. The kinetic mechanism of the cytosolic tumor malic enzyme is similar to that for the pigeon liver cytosolic malic enzyme but different from those for the mitochondrial enzyme from various sources.
Abstract A method for the isolation, identification, and quantitative estimation of tartronic acid in plant and animal tissues, and in urine is described. Using this method of identification and analysis the tartronic acid content of some urines and various plant and animal tissues has been determined, and the results compared with values previously reported by others. A report in the literature that tartronate is not metabolized by the rat has been confirmed.
Effects of counterion species on the aggregate structure of tetradecyldimethylamine oxide (C14DMAO) accompanying the protonation were examined by viscoelastic properties and phase behavior observations. Different extents of the synergetic behavior between protonated and non-protonated amine oxides were observed depending on the counterion species, which follow the Hofmeister, or the lyotropic, series. The efficacy of monovalent anions with respect to the increasing the surfactant packing parameter was as follows: salicylate>perchlorate>nitrate>bromide>chloride, formate. Vesicle formation was found in the case of salicylate and perchlorate anions and elongation of rodlike micelles was observed for nitrate, bromide, sulfate, tartronate and tartrate anions but little effects in the case of chloride and formate anions. The observed ionic specificity is well correlated with the free energy of hydration of counterions.
NAD-linked malic enzyme [EC 1.1.1.38] of Escherichia coli has been found to catalyze oxaloacetate reduction (reaction III) and pyruvate reduction (reaction IV), in addition to previously reported activities for oxidative decarboxylation of L-malate (reaction I) and oxaloacetate decarboxylation (reaction II). Chemical modification of the enzyme with N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) brought about a complete inactivation for reactions I and II and a 10-fold enhancement for reactions III and IV. Binding studies with 14 C-NEM revealed that 8 sulfhydryl groups were modified per tetrameric enzyme molecule concomitant with an alteration of the activities. Tartronate, a substrate analogue, NAD, and divalent metal ions protected the enzyme against the NEM modification.
Two new layered transition metal carboxylate frameworks, [Co3(L)2(H2O)6]·2H2O () and [Ni3(L)2(H2O)6]·2H2O () (L = tartronate anion or hydroxymalonic acid), have been synthesized and characterized by X-ray single crystal analysis. Both compounds have similar 2D structures. In both compounds there are two types of metal centers where one center is doubly bridged by the alkoxy oxygen atoms through μ2-O bridging to form a 1D infinite chain parallel to the crystallographic b-axis with the corners shared between the metal polyhedra. Magnetic susceptibility measurements revealed the existence of antiferromagnetic short range correlations between Co(Ni) intra-chain metal centers (with exchange constants JCo = -22.6 and JNi = -35.4 K). At low temperatures, long range order is observed in both compounds at Néel temperatures of 11 (for ) and 16 (for ) K, revealing that other exchange interactions, rather than the intra-chain ones, play a role in these systems. Whereas compound has an antiferromagnetic ground state, compound exhibits a ferromagnetic component, probably due to spin canting. Isothermal magnetization data unveiled a rich phase diagram with three metamagnetic phase transitions below 8 K in compound .
Measurement of the initial rate of the malic enzyme reaction varying the concentration of NAD at several different fixed levels of Mg2+ (0.25-1.0 mM) and a single malate concentration gave a pattern which intersects to the left of the ordinate. Repetition of this initial velocity pattern at several additional malate concentrations and treatment in terms of a terreactant mechanism suggests an ordered mechanism in which NAD adds prior to Mg2+ which must add prior to malate. On the other hand, when a broader concentration range of Mg2+ (0.25-50 mM) is used, data are consistent with a random mechanism in which Mg2+ must add prior to malate. By use of product inhibition studies, pyruvate is competitive vs. malate and noncompetitive vs. NAD, while NADH is competitive vs. NAD and noncompetitive vs. malate. These results are consistent with the random addition of substrates and further suggest rapid equilibrium random release of products. Tartronate, a dead-end analogue of malate, is competitive vs. malate and noncompetitive vs. NAD. Thio-NAD is a slow substrate which is used at 2.4% the maximum rate of NAD. When used as a dead-end analogue of NAD, thio-NAD is competitive vs. NAD and gives a complex inhibition pattern vs. malate in which competitive inhibition is apparent at low concentrations of malate (less than 12.5 mM), and this changes to uncompetitive inhibition at high concentrations of malate (greater than 12.5 mM). These data are consistent with a steady-state random mechanism in the direction of oxidative decarboxylation in which Mg2+ adds in rapid equilibrium prior to malate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Methylene-bis-tartronates and methylene-bis-hydroxymethylmalonates form monolactones where the CO2R and OH (or CH2OH) groups are known to becis-oriented. However, attempts to prepare the corresponding dilactones failed due to the unsufficient proximity of these functional groups. The results have been confirmed by NMR spectra.
Abstract In the search for active, stable, and selective electrocatalysts for glycerol electro-oxidation, this study focuses on the favorable effect that the addition of auxiliary metals, Bi for Pt and Pd, and Ag for Au, exerts on these three aspects. Electrocatalysts (Pt/C, Pt3Bi/C, PtBi/C, Au/C, Au3Ag/C, Pd/C and Pd3Bi/C) were successfully prepared by chemical reduction with NaBH4, resulting in nanoparticulate materials. Furthermore, in the case of the Pd3Bi/C, a high degree of Pd–Bi alloy was achieved. When applied to glycerol electrochemical reforming, the electrochemical performance was enhanced so reducing the energy requirements for hydrogen production. Furthermore, in 24 h potentiostatic electrolysis, a smaller decay of the current was observed compared to the monometallic material, especially in the case of the Au3Ag/C and Pd3Bi/C electrocatalysts. Finally, the presence of the auxiliary metals altered the selectivity of the glycerol electro-oxidation. Bismuth added to Pt and Pd leads to an increase in the selectivity toward C3 carboxylates, especially potassium tartronate in Pt–Bi materials operating at 30 °C. When the temperature is increased, this effect is counterbalanced by the larger amount of energy available, leading to a more heterogeneous product distribution in which oxalate and formate appear in higher percentages. Conversely, Ag leads to a more complex distribution product with large percentages of oxalate and formate.
Glycerol electrooxidation reaction has been investigated by electrochemical, spectroelectrochemical, and chromatographic methods on palladium–nickel and palladium–silver nanoparticules supported on carbon Vulcan XC 72R. These materials, prepared by the so-called “Bromide Anion Exchange” method, exhibited high activity toward the glycerol electrooxidation in alkaline medium showing furthermore an important shift of the onset potential toward low potential values. Electrolysis coupled with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIRS) measurements have been used to determine the various compounds generated in the oxidative conversion of this three hydroxyl groups carbon molecule. Some products with high added value such as glycerate and tartronate have been identified. In situ FTIRS results have furthermore shown the pH decrease in the thin layer near the electrode. These results will positively serve as guidelines for future works on the potential...
Abstract The oxidation of tartronate and mesoxalate ion by permanganate has been studied in 0.1–2.0 M aqueous NaOH. Manganate(VI) ion is formed in the first rapid phase, which is kinetically first order with respect to both MnO 4 − and the substrate. The second-order rate constant depends on the OH − ion concentration, which implies higher reactivity of the species with deprotonated 2-hydroxy groups. The proposed mechanism consists of outer sphere electron transfer to the MnO 4 − ion, generating an anion-radical and manganate(VI). The latter reacts with both substrates in the second, slower phase, affording manganate(V) as a relatively stable product in strong alkali. The anion-radical is oxidized by MnO 4 − in a rapid step.
Kinetic and equilibrium measurements were carried out for the complexation reaction of nickel(II) malonate and nickel(II) tartronate in an aqueous solution at 20 °C and at pressures up to 100 MPa. The reaction volume, ΔV0, and the activation volume, ΔVf*, for the complex formation were estimated from the pressure dependence of the stability constant and the rate constant. The results are as follows: ΔV0=13.5±1.0 cm3 mol−1 and ΔVf*=14.7±0.5 cm3 mol−1 for nickel(II) malonate, and ΔV0=13.3±0.7 cm3 mol−1 and ΔVf*=15.2±0.5 cm3 mol−1 for nickel(II) tartronate. The larger ΔV0 value compared with those obtained for dicarboxylate ligands which form a monodentate complex coincides with that malonate and tartronate form a chelate complex with nickel(II) in an aqueous solution. By appropriately estimating the volume changes associated with the outer-sphere complex formation and first-bond formation, the overall volume profile for the complexation reaction was obtained. A Similar feature regarding the volume profile f...
Reactions catalyzed by NAD-linked malic enzyme from Escherichia coli were investigated. In addition to L-malate oxidative decarboxylase activity (Activity 1) and oxaloacetate decarboxylase activity (Activity 2), the enzyme exhibited oxaloacetate reductase activity (Activity 3) and pyruvate reductase activity (Activity 4). Optimum pH's for Activities 3 and 4 were 4.0 and 5.0, and their specific activities were 1.7 and 0.07, respectively. Upon reaction with N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), Activity 1 decreased following pseudo-first order kinetics. Activity 2 decreased in parallel with Activity 1, while Activities 3 and 4 were about ten-fold enhanced by NEM modification. Modification of one or two sulfhydryl groups per enzyme subunit caused an alteration of the activities. Tartronate, a substrate analog, NAD+, and Mn2+ protected the enzyme against the modification. The Km values for the substrates and coenzymes were not significantly affected by NEM modification. Similarly, other sulfhydryl reagents such as p-hydroxymercuribenzoate (PMB), 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoate) (DTNB), and iodoacetate inhibited the decarboxylase activities and activated the reductase activities to various extents. Modification of the enzyme with PMB or DTNB was reversed by the addition of a sulfhydryl compound such as dithiothreitol or 2-mercaptoethanol. Based on the above results, the mechanism of the alteration of enzyme activities by sulfhydryl group modification is discussed.
The pH dependence of the kinetic parameters and the primary deuterium isotope effects with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and also thionicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (thio-NAD) as the nucleotide substrates were determined in order to obtain information about the chemical mechanism and location of rate-determining steps for the Ascaris suum NAD-malic enzyme reaction. The maximum velocity with thio-NAD as the nucleotide is pH-independent from pH 4.2 to 9.6, while with NAD, V decreases below a pK of 4.8. V/K for both nucleotides decreases below a pK of 5.6 and above a pK of 8.9. Both the tartronate pKi and V/Kmalate decrease below a pK of 4.8 and above a pK of 8.9. Oxalate is competitive vs. malate above pH 7 and noncompetitive below pH 7 with NAD as the nucleotide. The oxalate Kis increases from a constant value above a pK of 4.9 to another constant value above a pK of 6.7. The oxalate Kii also increases above a pK of 4.9, and this inhibition is enhanced by NADH. In the presence of thio-NAD the inhibition by oxalate is competitive vs. malate below pH 7. For thio-NAD, both DV and D(V/K) are pH-independent and equal to 1.7. With NAD as the nucleotide,more » DV decreases to 1.0 below a pK of 4.9, while D(V/KNAD) and D(V/Kmalate) are pH-independent. Above pH 7 the isotope effects on V and the V/K values for NAD and malate are equal to 1.45, the pH-independent value of DV above pH 7. Results indicate that substrates bind to only the correctly protonated form of the enzyme. Two enzyme groups are necessary for binding of substrates and catalysis. Both NAD and malate are released from the Michaelis complex at equal rates which are equal to the rate of NADH release from E-NADH above pH 7. Below pH 7 NADH release becomes more rate-determining as the pH decreases until at pH 4.0 it completely limits the overall rate of the reaction.« less
The pH-induced reversible dissociation of pigeon liver malic enzyme (EC 1.1.1.40) was studied by combined use of chemical cross-linking and SDS/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The tetrameric enzyme showed a pH-dependent dissociation in an acidic environment. At pH values above 8.0 most molecules existed as tetramers. The enzyme was gradually dissociated at lower pH. When the pH was below 5.0 most of the enzyme was present as the monomeric forms. Reassociation of the subunits was accomplished by adjusting the pH to neutrality. The dissociation and reassociation were almost instantaneous. No trimer was detected. The pigeon liver malic enzyme was thus shown to have a double-dimer quaternary structure with D2 symmetry. In the presence of substrates, the monomer-dimer-tetramer equilibrium favours the direction of dissociation. Tartronate, an L-malate analogue, was found to be more effective than L-malate in this process. When the monomeric forms were immobilized, the enzyme subunits were found to be fully active in catalysis. A possible arrangement of the four identical subunits of the enzyme molecule is proposed to account for the results obtained in this investigation. The origin of the half-of-the-sites reactivity of pigeon liver malic enzyme is also discussed.
The pH-induced reversible dissociation of pigeon liver malic enzyme (EC 1.1.1.40) was studied by combined use of chemical cross-linking and SDS/polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis. The tetrameric enzyme showed a pH-dependent dissociation in an acidic environment. At pH values above 8.0 most molecules existed as tetramers. The enzyme was gradually dissociated at lower pH. When the pH was below 5.0 most of the enzyme was present as the monomeric forms. Reassociation of the subunits was accomplished by adjusting the pH to neutrality. The dissociation and reassociation were almost instantaneous. No trimer was detected. The pigeon liver malic enzyme was thus shown to have a double-dimer quaternary structure with D2 symmetry. In the presence of substrates, the monomer-dimer-tetramer equilibrium favours the direction of dissociation. Tartronate, an L-malate analogue, was found to be more effective than L-malate in this process. When the monomeric forms were immobilized, the enzyme subunits were found to be fully active in catalysis. A possible arrangement of the four identical subunits of the enzyme molecule is proposed to account for the results obtained in this investigation. The origin of the half-of-the-sites reactivity of pigeon liver malic enzyme is also discussed.
In this study, we investigated the metabolism of ethylene glycol in the Pseudomonas putida strains KT2440 and JM37 by employing growth and bioconversion experiments, directed mutagenesis, and proteome analysis. We found that strain JM37 grew rapidly with ethylene glycol as a sole source of carbon and energy, while strain KT2440 did not grow within 2 days of incubation under the same conditions. However, bioconversion experiments revealed metabolism of ethylene glycol by both strains, with the temporal accumulation of glycolic acid and glyoxylic acid for strain KT2440. This accumulation was further increased by targeted mutagenesis. The key enzymes and specific differences between the two strains were identified by comparative proteomics. In P. putida JM37, tartronate semialdehyde synthase (Gcl), malate synthase (GlcB), and isocitrate lyase (AceA) were found to be induced in the presence of ethylene glycol or glyoxylic acid. Under the same conditions, strain KT2440 showed induction of AceA only. Despite this difference, the two strains were found to use similar periplasmic dehydrogenases for the initial oxidation step of ethylene glycol, namely, the two redundant pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ)-dependent enzymes PedE and PedH. From these results we constructed a new pathway for the metabolism of ethylene glycol in P. putida. Furthermore, we conclude that Pseudomonas putida might serve as a useful platform from which to establish a whole-cell biocatalyst for the production of glyoxylic acid from ethylene glycol.
Tartronate semialdehyde reductases (TSRs), also known as 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductases, catalyze the reduction of tartronate semialdehyde using NAD as cofactor in the final stage of D-glycerate biosynthesis. These enzymes belong to family of structurally and mechanically related beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases which differ in substrate specificity and catalyze reactions in specific metabolic pathways. Here, we present the crystal structure of GarR a TSR from Salmonella typhimurium determined by the single-wavelength anomalous diffraction method and refined to 1.65 A resolution. The active site of the enzyme contains L-tartrate which most likely mimics a position of a glycerate which is a product of the enzyme reaction. The analysis of the TSR structure shows also a putative NADPH binding site in the enzyme.
Abstract Tartronate semialdehyde reductases (TSRs), also known as 2-hydroxy-3-oxopropionate reductases, catalyze the reduction of tartronate semialdehyde using NAD as cofactor in the final stage of D-glycerate biosynthesis. These enzymes belong to family of structurally and mechanically related b-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases which differ in substrate specificity and catalyze reactions in specific metabolic pathways. Here, we present the crystal structure of GarR a TSR from Salmonella typhimurium determined by the single-wavelength anomalous diffraction method and refined to 1.65 Å resolution. The active site of the enzyme contains L-tartrate which most likely mimics a position of a glycerate which is a product of the enzyme reaction. The analysis of the TSR structure shows also a putative NADPH binding site in the enzyme.
Tartronate semialdehyde reductases (TSRs) catalyze the reduction of tartronate semialdehyde using NAD as cofactor in the final stage of D-glycerate biosynthesis (Fig. 1a) [1] . The enzymes are widely distributed in Eubacteria and have some sequence homologs in Archaea and Eukaryota [2] . They belong to COG2084 (Clusters of Orthologous Groups, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/COG/) currently consisting of 79 proteins which are described as 3-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase and related b-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases. TSRs belong to family of structurally and mechanically related b-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases which differ in substrate specificity and catalyze reactions in specific metabolic pathways (for review, see [3] ). Sequence and mutational analysis identified four distinct functional sequence motifs [3] . The most conserved is the N-terminal cofactor binding motif consisting of highly conserved glycine and several hydrophobic residues. This motif was predicted to specifically bind NAD cofactor. The substrate-binding motif is the most distinctive feature of b-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases. A highly conserved catalytic motif consists several glycines and catalytic lysine which was found essential for enzyme activity [4] . The C-terminal cofactor binding motif is strongly conserved in bacteria but only 2 residues, lysine and glycine, are conserved in all b-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases family members.
Abstract Pyruvate kinase from rabbit muscle catalyzes an ATP-dependent phosphorylation of glycolate to yield 2-phosphoglycolate (F. J. Kayne (1974) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 59 , 8–13) . An investigation of anologous reactions with other α-substituted carboxylic acids reveals several new substrates for such a phosphorylation reaction. Thus the α-hydroxy carboxylic acids l -lactate, d -lactate, dl -α-hydroxybutyrate, dl -αhydroxyvalerate, l -glycerate, d -glycerate, dl -nitrolactate, and dl -β-chlorolactate are phosphorylated on the α-hydroxy group to give the corresponding phosphoesters. Thioglycolate is also a slow substrate for phosphorylation of the thiol group to give the phosphothioglycolate, and dl -thiolactate is phosphorylated in a very slow reaction to give phosphothiolactate. β-Hydroxypyruvate is a substrate; but, unlike the reaction with pyruvate, with β-hydroxypyruvate the equilibrium for the reaction lies in favor of ADP and the phosphorylated product which appears from 31 P NMR data to be tartronate-semialdehyde-2-phosphate. 31 P NMR spectroscopy has been used to verify the identity of the products for all of the reactions. Steady-state kinetic constants have been obtained for some of the more rapid reactions. The reactions with glycolate, l -glycerate, and β-hydroxypyruvate have k cat values that are close to that for phosphorylation of pyruvate in the reverse of the physiological reaction.
Colloidal mineral-phases play an important role in the adsorption, transport and transformation of organic and inorganic compounds in the atmosphere and in aqueous environments. Artificial UV-light and sunlight can induce electron transfer reactions between metal ions of the solid phases and adsorbed compounds, leading to their transformation and degradation. To investigate different possible photo-induced oxidation pathways of dicarboxylates adsorbed on iron(III)(hydr)oxide surfaces, we followed UV-A induced photoreactions of oxalate, malonate, succinate and their corresponding α-hydroxy analogues tartronate and malate with in situ ATR-FTIR spectroscopy in immersed particle layers of lepidocrocite, goethite, maghemite and hematite at pH 4. UV-A light (365 ± 5 nm) lead to fast degradation of oxalate, tartronate and malate, while malonate and succinate were photo-degraded at much slower rates. Efficient generation of OH-radicals can be excluded, as this would lead to fast and indiscriminate degradation of all tested compounds. Rapid photo-degradation of adsorbed oxalate and the α-hydroxydicarboxylates must be induced by direct ligand-to-metal charge transfer (LMCT) or by selectively oxidizing valence band holes, both processes requiring inner-sphere coordination with direct ligand-to-metal bonds to enable efficient electron-transfer. The slow photo-degradation of malonate and succinate can be explained by low-yield production of OH-radicals at the surface of the iron(III)(hydr)oxides.
The preparation of 2, 2-dihydroxycyclohexylidene acetic acid lactone (Ⅳ) as a starting material for the syntheses of 3, 4-cis-triene compounds of the vitamin D type has been studied.Only α-carbethoxy-2-hydroxycyclohexen-(2)-ylidene acetic acid lactone [Ⅷ, m. p.110-111°, λ?? 296 mμ (e18,600)] was obtained by the treatment of the diethyl 2-ketocyclohexyltartronate (Ⅵ) with acetyl chloride. The structure of Ⅷ was substantiated by results from the decarboxylation and the ozonization of its free acid, α-carboxy-2-hydroxycyclohexen-(2)-ylidene acetic acid lactone [Ⅸ, m. p. 152-153°(decomp.),λ?? 285 mμ(e 13,600)]. Ⅸ yields 2-hydroxycyclohexen-(2)-ylidene acetic acid lactone [Ⅻ, b. p. 85-86°/0.15 mm, n_D~17 1.5592,λ?? 274 mμ (e 12,800)] on pyrolysis at 180°, and glutaric acid together with succinic acid on oxidative ozonization.Ⅵ was saponified to give 2-ketocyclohexyltartronic acid (XIII, m. p.144-145°).The reaction of XIII with hydrogen bromide in glacial acetic acid is quite complicated.It yields 2-ketocyclohexene-(6) acetic acid [XV, m. p. 99-100 , λ?? 240 mμ(e 8,650)], o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid [XVII, m. p, 146-147°, λ?? 275 mμ(e 2,250), λ?? 238, 291 mμ(e 9,120, 3,900)], Ⅻ, the lactone of acid XVII (XVI), and other two unknown substances. XII and XVI were obtained as a mixture,the nature of which has been revealed by the analysis of UV-absorption spectra and the preparation of derivatives like N-benzyl-??-hydroxy-phenylacetamide [XVIII, m.p. 111.5-112.5? ?? 275 m?? (?? 1,390)] and ??-hydroxyphenylacetic phenylhydrazide [XIX,m.p. 181.5-182.5? ?? 276 m?? (?? 4,190)].Pyrolysis of XIII at 140?was successful. From the product there were isolated IV [m.p. 85.5-86.5? ?? 217 m?? (?? 9,790), ?? 249 m??(?? 3,730)] and its isomer,trans-2-ketocyclohexylidene acetic acid [XXI, m.p. 120-121.5? ?? 251 m?? (?? 5,650),?? 251 m?? (?? 6,980)]. The structures of IV and XXI were established by UV-spectral analysis, the preparation of some characteristic derivatives and the ozonization deg-radation. In case of IV, its structure has been further confirmed by its conversion into XII.
4-Aryl-2,3-dioxobutyramide hydrates 1, undergo the benzil-benzilic acid rearrangement to form (substituted) benzyltartronate monoamides 2. For compound 1a (Ar = Ph), it is demonstrated by isotopic labelling that the reaction occurs exclusively by migration of the CONH2 group. Kinetic measurements with 1a-c and with the cyclic amide quinisatine 6 show that the rearrangement of the carboxamide group, proceeding via an alkali-catalysed step, can reach a plateau in the kobs./[OH−] diagram (cf. the Fig.), due to complete formation of a mono-anion, and a further increase of rate attributable to the rearrangement of a bis-anion. Comparisons suggest that rearrangements involving an amide group are slower than those involving an ester group, and that, for this effect (as for others), the pre-equilibrium deprotonation of the hydrate is more important than a specific migration tendency.
Abstract The β-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases are a structurally conserved family of enzymes that catalyze the NAD + or NADP + -dependent oxidation of specific β-hydroxyacid substrates like β-hydroxyisobutyrate. These enzymes share distinct domains of amino acid sequence homology, most of which now have assigned putative functions. 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and β-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase, the most well-characterized members, both appear to be readily inactivated by chemical modifiers of lysine residues, such as 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonate (TNBS). Peptide mapping by ESI-LCMS showed that inactivation of β-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase with TNBS occurs with the labeling of a single lysine residue, K248. This lysine residue is completely conserved in all family members and may have structural importance relating to cofactor binding. The structural framework of the β-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase family is shared by many bacterial homologues. One such homologue from E. coli has been cloned and expressed as recombinant protein. This protein was found to have enzymatic activity characteristic of tartronate semialdehyde reductase, an enzyme required for bacterial biosynthesis of d -glycerate. A homologue from H. influenzae was also cloned and expressed as recombinant protein. This protein was active in the oxidation of d -glycerate, but showed approximately ten-fold higher activity with four carbon substrates like β- d -hydroxybutyrate and d -threonine. This enzyme might function in H. influenzae , and other species, in the utilization of polyhydroxybutyrates, an energy storage form specific to bacteria. Cloning and characterization of these bacterial β-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases extends our knowledge of this enzyme family.
The molecular structures of two substituted diethyl tartronates show a variety of interactions between functional groups. Oxygen atoms interact with the electron deficient carbon and nitrogen atoms of nitrile and nitro groups which in response show small distortions from their normal geometries. Short O ··· H contacts between benzyl hydrogen atoms and ortho nitro groups indicate some weak hydrogen bonding effects. Crystal data: C15H16N2O7, Mr = 336.3, a = 7.668(2), b = 7.961(3), c = 15.244(3) Å, α = 86.78(1), β = 81.56(1), γ = 61.92(1)°, triclinic, P1¯, Z = 2; C14H16N2O9, Mr = 356.3, a = 7.786(2), b = 10.324(2), c = 11.155(4) Å, α = 71.43(2), β = 77.21(2), γ = 76.40(3)°, triclinic, P1¯ and Z = 2.
The oxidative decarboxylation of D-malate catalyzed by tartrate dehydrogenase has been analyzed by transient-state kinetic methods and kinetic isotope effect measurements. The reaction time courses show a burst of NADH formation prior to the attainment of the steady-state velocity. The binding of the inhibitor tartronate to the enzyme was examined by monitoring the quenching of the protein's intrinsic fluorescence; the tartronate concentration dependence of the observed rate constant for association was hyperbolic, supporting a two-step model for inhibitor binding. Analysis of the time courses for D-malate oxidation yielded values for many of the microscopic rate constants governing the reaction. The range of possible solutions for the microscopic rate constants was constrained by comparison of the time course for oxidation of unlabeled malate with that of deuterated malate; this analysis relied on the determination of the intrinsic isotope effect on hydride transfer via measurement of D(V/K), T(V/K), and the oxaloacetate partition ratio. The results of the transient-state kinetic analyses suggest that the rate of D-malate oxidation is largely limited by the rate of decarboxylation of the intermediate oxaloacetate which occurs at 11 s-1. Hydride transfer from D-malate to NAD+ occurs with a rate constant of 300 s-1, and (D)k for this step is 5.5. The agreement between experimentally measured steady-state kinetic parameters and kinetic isotope effects and their values calculated from the microscopic rate constants derived from the transient-state kinetic analyses was quite good.
Abstract Fe(III) carboxylato complex photochemistry can be of interest for environmental aqueous systems, oxidative processing of wastewater or laboratory photochemical applications in general. A comprehensive dataset of Fe 2+ quantum yields from the photolysis of aqueous Fe(III) complexes with malonate, succinate, glutarate, dl -tartrate, tartronate, gluconate, dl -lactate, dl -malate, pyruvate and glyoxalate has been measured. Irradiation techniques included single laser flash photolysis at 308 and 351 nm and continuous photolysis with a Hg(Xe) lamp-monochromator system at 313, 366, 405 and 436 nm. Complexes with ligands having a higher oxygen to carbon ratio tend to exhibit better photoreduction ability. Ligands containing OH, keto or diol functional groups in the α-position exhibit higher quantum yields than unsubstituted carboxylates (R-CH 2 -COOH). Generally, dissolved O 2 lowers the Fe 2+ quantum yield but at certain wavelengths, for some ligands this is the opposite. The influence of transient decay pathways and secondary red-ox reactions including interactions with dissolved O 2 has been investigated for Fe(III) glyoxalato complexes using kinetic simulations. Some complexes show a dependence of Fe 2+ quantum yield on the irradiation energy.
Abstract A series of new lipophilic platinum(II) complexes of the type [Pt(HPIP)L2] and [Pt(HPIP)L] (where HPIP = homopiperazine; L = acetate, propionate, butyrate, pentanoate, hexanoate, heptanoate, octanoate, nonanoate, decanoate, undecanoate, laureate, tridecanoate, myristate, pentadecanoate, palmitate, or heptadecanoate; and LL = oxalate, or tartronate) were synthesized and characterized by elemental analysis, IR, 13CNMR, and 195Pt NMR. In addition, the crystal structure of a representative complex [PtII(HPIP)(pentadecanoate)2], was determined by X-ray diffraction. The crystals were monoclinic, space group P21/c, with a = 28.212(6)A, b = 3.661(3)A, c = 10.218(2)A, and Z = 4. A total of 3940 reflections were collected, and the structure refined to R1 = 0.0522 and wR2 = 0.1333. The slightly distorted square plane of the platinum included the amino groups of the HPIP molecule in cis positions and oxygens from two monodentate pentadecanoates. The HPIP molecule was in a boat conformation and formed five- a...
Abstract An approach for determining the biodegradability of new detergent builders under activated sludge conditions was investigated using carboxymethyltartronate (CMT) as a representative material. Preliminary biodegradation studies in river water and activated sludge indicated a 4–8 week period before acclimation to and biodegradation of CMT. More detailed studies in continuous flow activated sludge units established that acclimation to CMT degradation was not readily lost upon CMT starvation, could be maintained at low temperatures and under conditions of variable organic loading, and was unaffected by the presence of a variety of metal ions. The laboratory evaluation of CMT, which stressed the use of natural sewage/activated sludge systems in place of tests employing commercially available laboratory media, would predict CMT to be satisfactorily removed in full-scale activated sludge waste treatment plants.
Herein we study the effect of adding Bismuth to Ni-nanostructured catalysts (NixBi1-x, x = 100 - 90 at. %) for glycerol electrooxidation in alkaline solution by combining physiochemical, electrochemical and in-situ infrared spectroscopy techniques, as well as continuous electrolysis with HPLC product analysis. The addition of small quantities of Bi (< 20 at. %) to Ni nanoparticles led to significant activity enhancement at lower overpotentials, with Ni90Bi10 displaying the over 2-fold increase compared to Ni. Small quantities of bismuth actively affected the reaction selectivity of Ni by suppressing the pathways with C-C bond cleavage, hindering the production of carbonate and formate and improving the formation of tartronate, oxalate and glycerate. Furthermore, the effect of aging on NixBi1-x catalysts was investigated, resulting in a structural modification from the Ni-Bi double-shell/core structure to Bi decorated on folded Ni sheet, thus enhancing their activity twice after two weeks aging. NiBi catalysts are promising candidates for glycerol valorization to high-value added products.
Mandelate racemase (MR) from Pseudomonas putida catalyzes the Mg(2+)-dependent 1,1-proton transfer that interconverts the enantiomers of mandelate. Because trifluorolactate is also a substrate of MR, we anticipated that replacing the phenyl rings of the competitive, substrate-product analogue inhibitor benzilate (Ki = 0.7 mM) with trifluoromethyl groups might furnish an inhibitor. Surprisingly, the substrate-product analogue 3,3,3-trifluoro-2-hydroxy-2-(trifluoromethyl)propanoate (TFHTP) was a potent competitive inhibitor [Ki = 27 ± 4 μM; cf. Km = 1.2 mM for both (R)-mandelate and (R)-trifluorolactate]. To understand the origins of this high binding affinity, we determined the X-ray crystal structure of the MR-TFHTP complex to 1.68 Å resolution. Rather than chelating the active site Mg(2+) with its glycolate moiety, like other ground state analogues, TFHTP exhibited a novel binding mode with the two trifluoromethyl groups closely packed against the 20s loop and the carboxylate bridging the two active site Brønsted acid-base catalysts Lys 166 and His 297. Recognizing that positioning a carboxylate between the Brønsted acid-base catalysts could yield an inhibitor, we showed that tartronate was a competitive inhibitor of MR (Ki = 1.8 ± 0.1 mM). The X-ray crystal structure of the MR-tartronate complex (1.80 Å resolution) revealed that the glycolate moiety of tartronate chelated the Mg(2+) and that the carboxylate bridged Lys 166 and His 297. Models of tartronate in monomers A and B of the crystal structure mimicked the binding orientations of (S)-mandelate and that anticipated for (R)-mandelate, respectively. For the latter monomer, the 20s loop appeared to be disordered, as it also did in the X-ray structure of the MR triple mutant (C92S/C264S/K166C) complexed with benzilate, which was determined to 1.89 Å resolution. These observations indicate that the 20s loop likely undergoes a significant conformational change upon binding (R)-mandelate. In general, our observations suggest that inhibitors of other enolase superfamily enzymes may be designed to capitalize on the recognition of the active site Brønsted acid-base catalysts as binding determinants.
New complexes [MoO(O2)2L]2–[L = malate, tartrate (tart), tartronate, quinate, or glycolate (glyc)], [WO(O2)2L]2–(L = citrate, tartrate, malate, or glycolate), and [W2O2(O2)4(tart)]4– are reported, and modified preparations given for [MO(O2)2L]2– and [MO2(O2)L(H2O)]2–(M = Mo or W; L = oxalate). Raman and i.r. spectra of the solid complexes, and Raman, 13C and 95Mo n.m.r. spectra of their aqueous solutions, have been measured and are used to suggest the structures of the species in the solid state and solution. The X-ray crystal structure of K2[MoO(O2)2(glyc)]·2H2O has been determined: triclinic, space group P, with a= 7.222(4), b= 7.950(6), c= 10.450(5)A, α= 67.81(4), β= 73.72(7), γ= 64.84(4)° at 20 °C, and Z= 2; the structure has been refined to R= 0.035.
Salmonella enteric serovar Typhi Ty2 is a human specific pathogen and an etiological agent for typhoid fever. Most of Salmonella serotypes produce glycogen which has a comparatively minor role in virulence and colonization, but has a more significant role in survival. Enzymes present in glycolytic pathway of bacteria help bacteria to survive by activating other factors inside host. Numerous pathogenic bacteria species intervene with the plasminogen system, and this plasminogen-enolase association may play a critical role in the virulence of S. Typhi by causing direct damage to the host cell extracellular matrix, possibly by enzymic degradation of extracellular matrix proteins or other protein constituents. In this study, molecular modelling of enolase of Salmonella has been accomplished in silico by comparative modelling; we have then analyzed Human alpha enolase which is a homodimer and serves on epithelial cells with our model. Both Structures were docked by D-tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (TSP) and 3-aminoenolpyruvate phosphate (AEP) enolase inhibitors. Our study shows that salmonella enolase and human enolase have different active sites in their structure. This will help in development of new ligands, more suitable for inhibiting bacterial survival inside host as vaccines for typhoid fever are not fully protective. The study also confirmed that enolase Salmonella and Human Plasminogen suggested direct physical interaction between both of them as the activation loop of plasminogen residues showed conformational changes similar to the tissue type plasminogen activator. Various computational biology tools were used for our present study such as Modeller, Molegro Virtual Docker, Grommacs.
Salmonella enteric serovar Typhi Ty2 is a human specific pathogen and an etiological agent for typhoid fever. Most of Salmonella serotypes produce glycogen which has a comparatively minor role in virulence and colonization, but has a more significant role in survival. Enzymes present in glycolytic pathway of bacteria help bacteria to survive by activating other factors inside host. Numerous pathogenic bacteria species intervene with the plasminogen system, and this plasminogen-enolase association may play a critical role in the virulence of S. Typhi by causing direct damage to the host cell extracellular matrix, possibly by enzymic degradation of extracellular matrix proteins or other protein constituents. In this study, molecular modelling of enolase of Salmonella has been accomplished in silico by comparative modelling; we have then analyzed Human alpha enolase which is a homodimer and serves on epithelial cells with our model. Both Structures were docked by D-tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (TSP) and 3-aminoenolpyruvate phosphate (AEP) enolase inhibitors. Our study shows that salmonella enolase and human enolase have different active sites in their structure. This will help in development of new ligands, more suitable for inhibiting bacterial survival inside host as vaccines for typhoid fever are not fully protective. The study also confirmed that enolase Salmonella and Human Plasminogen suggested direct physical interaction between both of them as the activation loop of plasminogen residues showed conformational changes similar to the tissue type plasminogen activator. Various computational biology tools were used for our present study such as Modeller, Molegro Virtual Docker, Grommacs.
Keywords: Salmonella Ty2, Enolase, TSP (D-tartronate semialdehyde phosphate), AEP (3-aminoenolpyruvate phosphate), Modelling, Docking
The immediate product of the pyruvate kinase catalyzed phosphorylation of beta-hydroxypyruvate is the enol of tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (TSP). The reaction has the same pH profile as that for the phosphorylation of pyruvate with pK's of 8.2 and 9.7 observed in H2O. This enol tautomerizes in solution to the aldehyde, which in turn becomes hydrated. 31P NMR spectra indicate that the enol resonates approximately 1 ppm upfield from the hydrated aldehyde. By following the tautomerization spectrophotometrically at 240 nm, we have found it to be independent of pH (0.2 min-1 below pH 6 in water), except that it is 2-fold slower above the pK of the phosphate group (6.3 in H2O and 6.7 in D2O). It is 3.6-fold slower in D2O. When this TSP is reduced with NaBH4, approximately 50% of the product is D-2-phosphoglyceric acid (substrate for enolase). Thus, while the immediate product of the phosphorylation rection is the enol of TSP, the eventual product is D,L-TSP. Both the enol and the aldehyde forms of TSP were found to be potent inhibitors of yeast enolase with apparent Ki values of 100 nM and 5 microM, respectively. However, since the aldehyde form is 95-99% hydrated [Stubbe, J., & Abeles, R. (1980) Biochemistry 19, 5505], the true Ki for the aldehyde species is 50-250 nM. The enol of TSP shows slow binding behavior, as expected for an intermediate analogue, with a t1/2 for this process of approximately 15 s (k = 0.046 s-1) and an initial Ki of approximately 200 nM.
Background ::: Glycerol is a by-product of biodiesel production. Currently, it has limited applications with low bioconversion efficiency to most metabolites reported. This is partly attributed to the poor knowledge on the glycerol metabolic pathway in bacteria and fungi. ::: Methodology/Principal Findings ::: We have established a fast screening method for identification of genes that improve glycerol utilization in Ustilago maydis. This was done by comparing the growth rates of T-DNA tagged mutant colonies on solid medium using glycerol as the sole carbon source. We present a detailed characterization of one of the mutants, GUM1, which contains a T-DNA element inserted into the promoter region of UM02592 locus (MIPS Ustilago maydis database, MUMDB), leading to enhanced and constitutive expression of its mRNA. We have demonstrated that um02592 encodes a functional tartronate semialdehyde reductase (Tsr1), which showed dual specificity to cofactors NAD+ and NADP+ and strong substrate specificity and enantioselectivity for D-glycerate. Improved glycerol assimilation in GUM1 was associated with elevated expression of tsr1 mRNA and this could be phenocopied by over-expression of the gene. Glycolipid accumulation was reduced by 45.2% in the knockout mutant whereas introduction of an extra copy of tsr1 driven by the glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase promoter increased it by 40.4%. ::: Conclusions/Significance ::: Our results demonstrate that tartronate semialdehyde reductase (TSR) plays an important role in glycerol assimilation in U. maydis and defines a novel target in genetic engineering for improved conversion of glycerol to higher value products. Our results add significant depth to the understanding of the glycerol metabolic pathway in fungi. We have demonstrated, for the first time, a biological role of a eukaryotic TSR.
With 3-bromo-2-oxopropanoate (β bromopyruvate) and its ethyl ester, the ionisation of the gemdiol of the hydrated form BrCH2-C(OH)2-COOR 1 initiates the elimination of bromide anion yielding 3-hydroxy-2-oxopropanoate 2 (β-hydroxypyruvate). The mechanism of the reaction was investigated essentially by polarography in aqueous solution. ::: ::: In neutral (and acid) media, the polarographic behaviour of 2 resembled that of other α-ketoacids: reduction at the mercury electrode yielded glycerate. ::: ::: In alkaline media, there was evidence of the carbanion enolate -O—CHC(OH)—COO-. 3'. The overall rate constant was determined according to a kinetic law of the typer:v = k.¦2¦.¦OH-¦; found k = 1,56 min-1 in NaOH 0.5 N at 25°. ::: ::: In the pH range 10.5 to 11.5,3' existed in minor amounts and initiated a slow aldol condensation with the tautomer 3-oxo-2-hydroxypropanoate 4 (tartronate Semialdehyde) according to a kinetic law of the type v = k.¦2¦2.¦OH-¦found k = 211.mol-1 min -1 at 25° , at pH 11.0. ::: ::: The aldol product was isolated as a sodium sail and its structure established by 13C NMR.
To quantify the effects of an advanced iron photochemistry scheme, the chemical aqueous-phase radical mechanism (CAPRAM 3.0i) has been updated with several new Fe(III)-carboxylate complex photolysis reactions. Newly introduced ligands are malonate, succinate, tartrate, tartronate, pyruvate, and glyoxalate. Model simulations show that more than 50% of the total Fe(III) is coordinated by oxalate and up to 20% of total Fe(III) is bound in the newly implemented 1:1 complexes with tartronate, malonate, and pyruvate. Up to 20% of the total Fe(III) is found in hydroxo and sulfato complexes. The fraction of [Fe(oxalate)2](-) and [Fe(pyruvate)](2+) is significantly higher during nighttime than during daytime, which points toward a strong influence of photochemistry on these species. Fe(III) complex photolysis is an important additional sink for tartronate, pyruvate, and oxalate, with a complex photolysis contribution to overall degradation of 46, 40, and 99%, respectively, compared to all possible sink reactions with atmospheric aqueous-phase radicals, such as (•)OH, NO3(•), and SO4(•) (-). Simulated aerosol particles have a much lower liquid water content than cloud droplets, thus leading to high concentrations of species and, consequently, an enhancement of the photolysis sink reactions in the aerosol particles. The simulations showed that Fe(III) photochemistry should not be neglected when considering the fate of carboxylic acids, which constitute a major part of aqueous secondary organic aerosol (aqSOA) in tropospheric cloud droplets and aqueous particles. Failure to consider this loss pathway has the potential to result in a significant overestimate of aqSOA production.
Abstract Platinum metal catalysts, promoted or not with bismuth, have been designed to favour oxidation of either the primary or the secondary alcohol functions of glycerol in aqueous solution. Thus, on palladium catalyst oxidation of the primary function of glycerol predominates and glyceric acid is the chief product (70% yield at 90% conversion, pH=11) whereas on bismuth-promoted platinum catalyst oxidation of the secondary function prevails to give dihydroxyacetone (37% yield at 75% conversion, pH=2). Subsequent oxidation of glyceric acid on platinum gives the tartronate (61% yield at 94% conversion, pH=10–11); improved yields were obtained with the bismuth-promoted catalyst (83% yield at 90% conversion, pH=10–11). On bismuth-promoted platinum oxidation of glyceric acid gives hydroxypyruvic acid as the main product (64% yield at 75% conversion, pH=3–4) and under the same conditions tartronic acid is oxidised to mesoxalic acid (29% yield at 53% conversion, pH=1.5) bismuth adatoms have two roles: they prevent over-oxidation by strongly adsorbed acids and orientate the selectivity towards oxidation of the secondary alcohol function.
Malic enzyme from pigeon liver is alkylated by the substrate analogue bromopyruvate, resulting in the concomitant loss of its oxidative decarboxylase and oxalacetate decarboxylase activities, but not its ability to reduce alpha-keto acids. The inactivation of oxidative decarboxylase activity follows saturation kinetics, indicating the formation of an enzyme-bromopyruvate complex (K congruent to 8 mM) prior to alkylation. The inactivation is inhibited by metal ions and pyridine nucleotide cofactors. Protection of malic enzyme by the substrates L-malate and pyruvate and the inhibitors tartronate and oxalate requires the presence of the above cofactors, which tighten the binding of these carboxylic acids in accord with the ordered kinetic scheme (Hsu, R. Y., Lardy, H. A., and Cleland, W. W. (1967), J. Biol. Chem. 242, 5315-5322). Bromopyruvate is reduced to L-bromolactate by malic enzyme and is an effective inhibitor of L-malate and pyruvate in the overall reaction. The apparent kinetic constants (90 muM-0.8 mM) are one to two orders of magnitude lower than the half-saturation constant (K) of inactivation, indicating a similar tightening of bromopyruvate binding in the E-NADP+ (NADPH)-Mn2+ (Mg2+)-BP complexes. During alkylation, bromopyruvate interacts initially at the carboxylic acid substrate pocket of the active site, as indicated by the protective effect of substrates and the ability of this compound to form kinetically viable complexes with malic enzyme, particularly as a competitive inhibitor of pyruvate carboxylation with a Ki (90 muM) in the same order as its apparent Michaelis constant of 98 muM. Subsequent alkylation of a cysteinyl residue blocks the C-C bond cleavage step. The incorporation of radioactivity from [14C]bromopyruvate gives a half-site stoichiometry of two carboxyketomethyl residues per tetramer, indicating strong negative cooperativity between the four subunits of equal size, or alternatively the presence of structurally dissimilar active sites.
Abstract Initial velocity, product inhibition, and substrate inhibition studies suggest that the endogenous lactate dehydrogenase activity of duck ϵ-crystallin follows an order Bi-Bi sequential mechanism. In the forward reaction (pyruvate reduction), substrate inhibition by pyruvate was uncompetitive with inhibition constant of 6.7 ± 1.7 m m . In the reverse reaction (lactate oxidation), substrate inhibition by l -lactate was uncompetitive with inhibition constant of 158 ± 25 m m . The cause of these inhibitions may be due to ϵ-crystallin-NAD+-pyruvate and ϵ-crystallin-NADH- l -lactate abortive ternary complex formation as suggested by the multiple inhibition studies. Pyruvate binds to free enzyme very poorly, with a very large dissociation constant. Bromopyruvate, fluoropyruvate, pyruvate methyl ester, and pyruvate ethyl ester are alternative substrates for pyruvate. 3-Acetylpyridine adenine dinucleotide, nicotinamide 1,N6-ethenoadenine dinucleotide, and nicotinamide hypoxanthine dinucleotide serve as alternative coenzymes for ϵ-crystallin. All the above alternative substrates or coenzymes showed an intersecting initial-velocity pattern conforming to the order Bi-Bi kinetic mechanism. Nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide, thionicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, and 3-aminopyridine adenine dinucleotide acted as inhibitors for this enzymatic crystallin. The inhibitors were competitive versus NAD+ and noncompetitive versus l -lactate. α-NAD+ was a noncompetitive inhibitor with respect to the usual β-NAD+. d -Lactate, tartronate, and oxamate were strong dead-end inhibitors for the lactate dehydrogenase activity of ϵ-crystallin. Both d -lactate and tartronate were competitive inhibitors versus l -lactate while oxamate was a competitive inhibitor versus pyruvate. We conclude that the structural requirements for the substrate and coenzyme of ϵ-crystallin are similar to those of other dehydrogenases and that the carboxamide carbonyl group of the nicotinamide moiety is important for the coenzyme activity.
Diethyl [O-benzoyl]ethyltartronate ::: ::: ::: ::: product: diethyl [O-benzoyl]ethyltartronate ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: oxidation, CH2 CHOH and CHOR; ::: sodium hydride, in oil, handling of; ::: benzoyl peroxide, shock-sensitive; ::: peroxides
Glyoxylate carboligase (GCL) is a thiamin diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzyme, which catalyzes the decarboxylation of glyoxylate and ligation to a second molecule of glyoxylate to form tartronate semialdehyde (TSA). This enzyme is unique among ThDP enzymes in that it lacks a conserved glutamate near the N1′ atom of ThDP (replaced by Val51) or any other potential acid–base side chains near ThDP. The V51D substitution shifts the pH optimum to 6.0–6.2 (pKa of 6.2) for TSA formation from pH 7.0–7.7 in wild-type GCL. This pKa is similar to the pKa of 6.1 for the 1′,4′-iminopyrimidine (IP)–4′-aminopyrimidinium (APH+) protonic equilibrium, suggesting that the same groups control both ThDP protonation and TSA formation. The key covalent ThDP-bound intermediates were identified on V51D GCL by a combination of steady-state and stopped-flow circular dichroism methods, yielding rate constants for their formation and decomposition. It was demonstrated that active center variants with substitution at I393 could synthes...
Abstract Electro-oxidation of alcohol is the key reaction occurring at the anode of a direct alcohol fuel cell (DAFC), in which both reaction kinetics (rate) and selectivity (to deep oxidation products) need improvement to obtain higher power density and fuel utilization for a more efficient DAFC. We recently found that a PdAg bimetallic nanoparticle catalyst is more efficient than Pd for alcohol oxidation: Pd can facilitate deprotonation of alcohol in a base electrolyte, while Ag can promote intermediate aldehyde oxidation and cleavage of C C bond of C3 species to C2 species. Therefore, a combination of the two active sites (Pd and Ag) with two different functions, can simultaneously improve the reaction rates and deeper oxidation products of alcohols (Applied Catalysis B, 2016, 199, 494). In this continuing work, Pd, Ag mono, and bimetallic nanoparticles supported on carbon nanotubes (Ag/CNT, Pd/CNT, Pd1Ag1/CNT, and Pd1Ag3/CNT) were prepared using an aqueous-phase reduction method; they served as working catalysts for studying electrocatalytic oxidation of glycerol in an anion-exchange membrane-based direct glycerol fuel cell. Combined XRD, TEM, and HAADF-STEM analyses performed to fully characterize as-prepared catalysts suggested that they have small particle sizes: 2.0 nm for Pd/CNT, 2.3 nm for PdAg/CNT, 2.4 nm for PdAg3/CNT, and 13.9 nm for Ag/CNT. XPS further shows that alloying with Ag results in more metal state Pd presented on the surface, and this may be related to their higher direct glycerol fuel cell (DGFC) performances. Single DGFC performance and product analysis results show that PdAg bimetallic nanoparticles can not only improve the glycerol reaction rate so that higher power output can be achieved, but also facilitate deep oxidation of glycerol so that a higher faradaic efficiency and fuel utilization can be achieved along with optimal reaction conditions (increased base-to-fuel ratio). Half-cell electrocatalytic activity measurement and single fuel cell product analysis of different glycerol oxidation intermediates, including C3: glycerate, tartronate, mesoxalate, and lactate; C2: glycolate and oxalate, over PdAg/CNT catalyst was further conducted and produced deeper insight into the synergistic effects and reaction pathways of bimetallic PdAg catalysts in glycerol electrocatalytic oxidation.
Electro-oxidation of alcohol is the key reaction occurring at the anode of a direct alcohol fuel cell (DAFC), in which both reaction kinetics (rate) and selectivity (to deep oxidation products) need improvement to obtain higher power density and fuel utilization for a more efficient DAFC. We recently found that a PdAg bimetallic nanoparticle catalyst is more efficient than Pd for alcohol oxidation: Pd can facilitate deprotonation of alcohol in a base electrolyte, while Ag can promote intermediate aldehyde oxidation and cleavage of C C bond of C 3 species to C 2 species. Therefore, a combination of the two active sites (Pd and Ag) with two different functions, can simultaneously improve the reaction rates and deeper oxidation products of alcohols (Applied Catalysis B, 2016, 199, 494). In this continuing work, Pd, Ag mono, and bimetallic nanoparticles supported on carbon nanotubes (Ag/CNT, Pd/CNT, Pd 1 Ag 1 /CNT, and Pd 1 Ag 3 /CNT) were prepared using an aqueous-phase reduction method; they served as working catalysts for studying electrocatalytic oxidation of glycerol in an anion-exchange membrane-based direct glycerol fuel cell. Combined XRD, TEM, and HAADF-STEM analyses performed to fully characterize as-prepared catalysts suggested that they have small particle sizes: 2.0 nm for Pd/CNT, 2.3 nm for PdAg/CNT, 2.4 nm for PdAg 3 /CNT, and 13.9 nm for Ag/CNT. XPS further shows that alloying with Ag results in more metal state Pd presented on the surface, and this may be related to their higher direct glycerol fuel cell (DGFC) performances. Single DGFC performance and product analysis results show that PdAg bimetallic nanoparticles can not only improve the glycerol reaction rate so that higher power output can be achieved, but also facilitate deep oxidation of glycerol so that a higher faradaic efficiency and fuel utilization can be achieved along with optimal reaction conditions (increased base-to-fuel ratio). Half-cell electrocatalytic activity measurement and single fuel cell product analysis of different glycerol oxidation intermediates, including C 3 : glycerate, tartronate, mesoxalate, and lactate; C 2 : glycolate and oxalate, over PdAg/CNT catalyst was further conducted and produced deeper insight into the synergistic effects and reaction pathways of bimetallic PdAg catalysts in glycerol electrocatalytic oxidation.
In the present work, we focus on a more detailed analysis of glycerol oxidation over PdAg/CNT as well as a more comprehensive physical characterization of PdAg/CNT. Full characterizations such as XRD, TEM, XPS, ICP-MS, and HAADF-STEM, were used to characterize the particle size, size distribution, structure, surface chemical state and bulk metal composition of these catalysts. The catalytic activities of catalysts toward glycerol oxidation were first compared in half-cells, and then applied as electrocatalysts for oxidation of glycerol in AEM-DAFCs to determine the product distribution. Electrocatalytic activities of different reaction intermediates (C 3 chemicals: glycerate, tartronate, mesoxalate, lactate; C 2 chemicals: glycolate, oxalate) corresponding to these catalysts were determined to investigate the reaction pathways, with combined product distribution results obtained in single DGFCs. This study demonstrates the benefit of using an alloyed Pd-Ag bimetallic catalyst to improve peak power density and facilitate deeper oxidation products, thereby improving fuel cell performance.
Abstract Sustainable cogeneration of tartronate (high yield of 61.8%) and electrical energy (1527 J, 12 h) has been achieved from direct electrocatalytic oxidation of glycerol on Au/C in a 5 cm2 anion exchange membrane-direct glycerol fuel cells (AEM-DGFCs). The electrode structure and reaction conditions exhibited strong effects on the anode potential, which can be tuned to OH groups of glycerol while minimizing over-oxidation of the secondary OH and C C bond cleavage, thereby promoting the tartronate production. The relatively low activity of partial oxidation products (glycerate, tartronate, mesoxalate) on Au/C revealed in half cell indicates that the tartronate generation in AEM-DGFCs is through direct adsorbed C3 intermediates oxidation. Mass transport of reactants and reaction intermediates governed by the operational conditions was also found to play a critical role in regulating reaction rate and the desired products selectivity. Furthermore, Au/C prepared via aqueous phase reduction method (Au/C-AQ) was compared with organic phase nanocapsule method (Au/C-NC), and it shows the residual surfactants have little effect on the tartronate yield.
Herein we investigated the effect of the adsorption of Bi and Pb on polycrystalline platinum (Ptp) on the electrooxidation of glycerol (EOG) in alkaline media by combining electrochemical, spectroscopic (in situ FTIR) and analytical (on line HPLC) techniques. Besides, we used single crystal Pt electrodes to understand the effect of the modification of Ptp in terms of the atomic arrangements on its surface. We found that the activity of Ptp increases in the presence of Pb (Ptp-Pb), which acts by suppressing the pathways with complete C-C bond breaking (to produce carbonate) and enhancing the production of glycerate, formate, tartronate and glycolate. We also found that Pt(100) and Pt(111) are affected by the adsorption of both adatoms. However, the modification of Pt(110) explains the results obtained with Ptp. This basal plane is highly activated by Bi and Pb and its behavior is similar to those of Ptp-Bi and Ptp-Pb respectively. These results permit to conclude that the adatoms acts mainly activating Pt ...
Glyoxylate carboligase (GCL) catalyzes the ligation of two molecules of glyoxylate to form tartronate semialdehyde (TSA) and carbon dioxide. GCL is unique among ThDP-dependent enzymes because it lacks the canonical glutamate in the active site which is thought to be highly necessary for other ThDP enzymes. In this paper, the catalytic reactions of GCL and its mutant V51E have been explored using a combined QM/MM approach. On the basis of our calculations, the following important points have been obtained: (1) although the glutamate residue is absent in the active site of GCL, the activation of cofactor ThDP is still quite easy with a very low energy barrier of 5.0 kcal/mol; (2) the catalytic cycle can still proceed in the case where no other potential acid–base side chain exists in the active site; (3) for the wild-type GCL, the energy barrier of the most energy-requiring step is 17.9 kcal/mol, which agrees well with the experimental observations; (4) for V51E mutant, the concerted formation of the product TSA and regeneration of the ThDP ylide is calculated to be the rate-limiting step with an energy barrier of 19.5 kcal/mol. It is slightly higher than that of the wild-type GCL (19.5 vs. 17.9 kcal/mol), which can well explain the relatively lower activity of the V51E mutant than the wild-type enzyme. Our results may provide help for further understanding the catalytic mechanism of GCL.
Treatment of malic enzyme with arginine-specific reagents phenylglyoxal or 2,3-butanedione results in pseudo-first-order loss of oxidative decarboxylase activity. In-activation by phenylglyoxal is completely prevented by saturating concentrations of NADP+, Mn2+, and substrate analog hydroxymalonate. Double log plots of pseudo-first-order rate constant versus concentration yield straight lines with identical slopes of unity for both reagents, suggesting that reaction of one molecule of reagent per active site is associated with activity loss. In parallel experiments, complete inactivation is accompanied by the incorporation of four [14C]phenylglyoxal molecules, and the loss of two arginyl residues per enzyme subunit, as determined by the colorimetric method of Yamasaki et al. (R. B. Yamasaki, D. A. Shimer, and R. E. Feeney (1981) Anal. Biochem. 14, 220-226). These results confirm a 2:1 ratio for the reaction between phenylglyoxal and arginine (K. Takahashi (1968) J. Biol. Chem. 243, 6171-6179) and yield a stoichiometry of two arginine residues reacted per subunit for complete inactivation, of which one is essential for enzyme activity as determined by the statistical method of Tsou (C. L. Tsou (1962) Acta Biochim. Biophys. Sinica 2, 203-211) and the Ray and Koshland analysis (W. J. Ray and D. E. Koshland (1961) J. Biol. Chem. 236, 1973-1979). Amino acid analysis of butanedione-modified enzyme also shows loss of arginyl residues, without significant decrease in other amino acids. Modification by phenylglyoxal does not significantly affect the affinity of this enzyme for NADPH. Binding of L-malate and its dicarboxylic acid analogs oxalate and tartronate is abolished upon modification, as is binding of the monocarboxylic acid alpha-hydroxybutyrate. The latter result indicates binding of the C-1 carboxyl group of the substrate to an arginyl residue on the enzyme.
An inducible NADP(+)-dependent D-phenylserine dehydrogenase [EC 1.1.1.-], which catalyzes the oxidation of the hydroxyl group of D-threo-beta-phenylserine, was purified to homogeneity from a crude extract of Pseudomonas syringae NK-15 isolated from soil. The enzyme consisted of two subunits identical in molecular weight (about 31,000). In addition to D-threo-beta-phenylserine, it utilized D-threo-beta-thienylserine, D-threo-beta-hydroxynorvaline, and D-threonine as substrates but was inert towards other isomers of beta-phenylserine and threonine. It showed maximal activity at pH 10.4 for the oxidation of D-threo-beta-phenylserine, and it required NADP+ as a natural coenzyme. NAD+ showed a slight coenzyme activity. The enzyme was inhibited by p-chloromercuribenzoate, HgCl2, and monoiodoacetate but not by the organic acids such as tartronate. The Michaelis constants for D-threo-beta-phenylserine and NADP+ were 0.44 mM and 29 microM, respectively. The N-terminal 27 amino acids sequence was determined. It suggested that the NADP(+)-binding site was located in the N-terminal region of the enzyme.
Abstract The catalytic oxidation, with air, of aqueous solutions of glycerol-derived oxygenates on carbon-supported platinum metals may be controlled to improve yields of valuable fine chemicals. The primary and secondary alcohol functions of glyceric acid, calcium salt, were selectively oxidised by varying the pH and employing a promoter. Under basic conditions, platinum catalyst yielded the tartronate salt (61% yield at 94% conversion, pH 10–11) and slightly higher yields were obtained on bismuth-promoted platinum (83% yield at 90% conversion, pH= 10–11). Hydroxypyruvic acid was obtained on bismuth-promoted platinum under acidic conditions (64% yield at 75% conversion, pH 3–4).
Potassium tartronate (dipotassium hydroxypropanedioate, 2K + .C 3 H 2 O 2- 5 ), (I), crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P2 1 /n, with Z = 4, and ammonium tartronate (diammonium hydroxypropanedioate, 2NH + 4 .-C 3 H 2 O 2- 5 ), (II), crystallizes in orthorhombic space group Pna21, with Z = 4. There are two symmetry-independent cations in both (I) and (II). The coordination number of the K + ion in (I) is seven, and the number of hydrogen bonds around the NH + 4 ion in (II) is four. This difference arises from the fact that the hydrogen bonding governs the number of O atoms around NH + 4 in (II), in contrast to the electrostatic interactions in (I).
Glyoxylate, formed as a result of allantoin degradation, is converted by Hyphomicrobium species to glycerate via tartronate semialdehyde. Glyoxylate carboligase and tartronate semialdehyde reductase, the two enzymes involved, are present only in cells grown on allantoin as nitrogen source.
The thermodynamic quantities (AG, AH and AS) of U(VI) complexation with oxalate, malonate, succinate, glutarate, adipate, phthalate, tartronate and malate, and of Eu(III) complexation with succinate, glutarate and adipate were determined by potentiometric and calorimetric titration techniques. The obtained thermodynamic quantities indicated that these complexation reactions are mainly driven by the entropy changes while the enthalpy changes are nearly zero or preventing the complexation. The thermodynamic quantities of 1 : 1 U(VI) complexes with 5 dicarboxylates having different carbon chain lengths ( - OOC-(CH 2 ) n -COO - ) showed an interesting tendency, that is, -AH decreased and TAS increased systematically with increasing the length of the carbon chain from n = 2 to 6. The comparison of TAS values of 1 : 1 carboxylate formation with U(VI) and Eu(III) showed that TAS of U(VI) were always lager than those of Eu(III). The entropies of 1 : 1 complex formation of U(VI) with hydroxycarboxylates were always smaller than those with carboxylates of the same carbon chain length, while the enthalpies of uranyl hydroxycarboxylates were always larger. This tendency was also observed in the protonation and the complex formation of Eu(III).
Our laboratory has previously reported a structurally and mechanistically related family of beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases with significant homology to beta-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase. A large number of the members of this family are hypothetical proteins of bacterial origin with unknown identity in terms of their substrate specificities and metabolic roles. The Escherichia coli beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase homologue corresponding to the locus was cloned and expressed with a 6-histidine tag for specific purification. The purified recombinant protein very specifically catalyzed the NAD(+)-dependent oxidation of d-glycerate and the NADH-dependent reduction of tartronate semialdehyde, identifying this protein as a tartronate semialdehyde reductase. Further evidence for identification as tartronate semialdehyde reductase is the observation that the coding region for this protein is directly preceded by genes coding for hydroxypyruvate isomerase and glyoxylate carboligase, two enzymes that synthesize tartronate semialdehyde, producing an operon clearly designed for d-glycerate biosynthesis from tartronate semialdehyde. The single beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase homologue from Haemophilus influenzae was also cloned, expressed, and purified with a 6-histidine tag. This protein also catalyzed the NAD(+)-dependent oxidation of d-glycerate but was significantly more efficient in the oxidation of four-carbon beta-hydroxyacids like d-hydroxybutyrate and d-threonine. This enzyme differs from all the presently known beta-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenases which are well established members of the short chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily.
Because of the widespread occurrence many microorganisms are able to use uronic acids as carbon and energy source (McRorie and Novelli, 1958; Farmer and Eagon, 1969) . Several catabolic pathways exist, which guide these compounds towards the central metabolism (Ashwell et al., 1958; Richard and Hilditch, 2009 ). Examinations that dealt with the characterization of uronate dehydrogenases and the subsequent enzymatic steps involved, revealed two oxidative pathways that lead to the intermediates α-ketoglutaric acid or pyruvate and L-tartronate semialdehyde (Bateman et al., 1970; Chang and Feingold, 1970; Wagner and Hollmann, 1976; Richard and Hilditch, 2009 ). The oxidative pathway for glucuronic and galacturonic acid towards α-ketoglutaric acid is similar to an alternative C 5-carbohydrate utilization as identified for xylose and arabinose (Watanabe et al., 2006a,b; Stephens et al., 2007) . Initial characterization of uronate dehydrogenases derived from P. syringae and A. tumefaciens was performed without knowledge of the corresponding amino acid sequence of the enzymes. The genes were recently identified for the uronate dehydrogenases of Pseudomonas putida, A. tumefaciens and P. syringae using a complementation assay . The identification was directly linked to a metabolic engineering approach aimed to design a synthetic pathway for the production of glucaric acid from glucose as substrate ). In addition, fungal strains, which are capable to produce mesogalactarate by use of uronate dehydrogenase, were developed (Mojzita et al., 2010) . Recently, the crystal structures of two uronate dehydrogenases from A. tumefaciens and Chromohalobacter salexigens DSM 3043 were elucidated (Ahn et al., 2011; Parkkinen et al., 2011) . The increased interest on enzymes and pathways converting sugar and sugar derivatives reflects the need of biotechnological conversion routes of biogenic raw materials into chemicals and fuels (Grohmann et al., 1998; Carvalheiro et al., 2008) . The aim of this study was to identify uronate dehydrogenases on basis of a BLAST search and subsequently characterize them with a focus on kinetic parameters and substrate specificity. The candidates were finally evaluated for biocatalyst-based conversion routes towards valuable chemical building blocks.
Hydroxypyruvate isomerase of Bacillus fastidiosus is a novel enzyme (Braun, W. and Kaltwasser, H. (1979) Arch. Microbiol. 121, 129–134) which catalyzes the reversible conversion of tartronate semialdehyde into hydroxypyruvate. ::: ::: The enzyme was purified to homogeneity. The native molecule had a molecular weight of 265 000–280 000 and was composed of six subunits with a molecular weight of 45 000. ::: ::: The enzyme showed optimal activity at pH 6.6–7.4 and 57°C. Hydroxypyruvate isomerase is stable on heating for 10 min at 67°C. ::: ::: The enzyme appeared to be specific for tartronate semialdehyde and hydroxypyruvate and no cofactors were involved in the reaction. The equilibrium constant ::: K=[tartronate semialdehyde][hydroxypyruvate] ::: was found to be 2.5 at pH 7.1, and 30°C.
The effect of sodium tartronate was studied in experiments on mice and rats on the basis of data on the inhibition of the transfer of carbohydrates into fats by tartronic acid presented by Wesson. Sodium tartronate was administered in doses of 0.025 to 0.09 g and its effect on body weight, fat and liver glycogen was studied. If 0.09 g of sodium tartronate is introduced subcutaneously to adult rats weighing from 254 to 364 g for 10 days, reduction of weight, increase of glycogen content and a certain decrease of fat content is noted in the liver. If 0.025 g of this substance is introduced subcutaneously to adult mice weighing 31 to 33 g, there is an increase of glycogen and decrease of fat in the liver. However, with mice there is no reduction of weight.
Reaction pathways of side products (formate, glycolate, and tartronate) from dihydroxyfumarate (DHF) were theoretically investigated as DHF is an intermediate in the process of producing tartrates and oxalate from glyoxylate of the citric acid cycle. The proposed pathways for each reaction were mapped by density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The transitions states were confirmed by analyzing the vibrational frequency and the intrinsic reaction coordinate (IRC) theory. The corresponding reaction activation energy, enthalpy change, Gibb’s free energy change, and rate of reactions were calculated to get a clear picture of the whole reaction pathway. In the whole process, the decarboxylation reaction showed the highest energy barrier of 20–23 kcal/mol. Proton transfer and hydroxylation reactions were almost barrierless. As most of these reactions have very low energy barrier, our findings elucidate the high probability of those reactions under experimental conditions.
Abstract (1) d (-)-3-Hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase activity from guinea pig, rat, and bovine heart and from guinea pig liver is inhibited by malonate and tartronate, and more potently by the analogs methylmalonate, bromomalonate, chloromalonate, and mesoxalate. Little or no inhibitory effect was found for aminomalonate, ethylmalonate, dimethylmalonate, succinate, glutarate, oxaloacetate, malate, propionate, pyruvate, d - and l -lactate, n -butyrate, isobutyrate, and cyclopropanecarboxylate. (2) In initial velocity kinetics at pH 8.1 with a soluble enzyme preparation from bovine heart, the inhibition by the active malonate derivatives is competitive with respect to 3-hydroxybutyrate and uncompetitive with respect to acetoacetate, NAD + or NADH. With d -3-hydroxybutyrate as the variable reactant ( K m app = 0.26 mM) the inhibition constant of methylmalonate ( K is ) was 0.09 m m . (3) The rate of utilization of d -3-hydroxybutyrate (78 μ m ) by coupled rat heart mitochondria in the presence of ADP was inhibited 50% by 150 μ m methylmalonate. (4) With coupled guinea pig liver mitochondria oxidizing n -octanoate in the absence of added ADP, methylmalonate (1–3 m m ) depressed 3-hydroxybutyrate formation substantially more than total ketone production. However, the intramitochondrial NADH (or NADPH) levels were unchanged by the addition of methylmalonate, indicating that the changes in ratios of accumulated 3-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate were caused by direct inhibition of 3-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase. Methylmalonate had the same effect on 3-hydroxybutyrate/acetoacetate ratios and ketone body formation with pyruvate or acetate as the source of acetyl groups. Similar results were obtained with malonate (10 m m ) although the inhibition of total ketone formation from octanoate was more severe.
Tartronic acid forms a hydrogen-bonded complex, C 5 H 5 NO.-C 3 H 4 O 5 , (I), with 2-pyridone, while it forms acid salts, namely 3-hydroxypyridinium hydrogen tartronate, (II), and 4-hydroxypyridinium hydrogen tartronate, (III), both C 5 H 6 NO + .-C 3 H 3 O 5 - , with 3-hydroxypyridine and 4-hydroxypyridine, respectively. In (I), the pyridone molecules and the acid molecules form R 2 2 (8) and R 2 2 (10) hydrogen-bonded rings, respectively, around the inversion centres. In (II) and (III), the cations and anions are linked by N-H...O and O-H...O hydrogen bonds to form a hydrogen-bonded chain. In each of (I), (II) and (III), an intermolecular hydrogen bond is formed between a carboxyl group and the hydroxyl group attached to the central C atom, and in (I), the hydroxyl group participates in an intramolecular hydrogen bond with a carbonyl group. No intermolecular hydrogen bond is formed between the carboxyl groups in (I), or between the carboxyl and carboxylate groups in (II) and (III).
Abstract This study shows the influence of the Pt percentage in Pt catalysts (Pt/C) on their application in Direct Glycerol Fuel Cells (DGFC). Catalysts with 20, 30, 40 and 60% Pt were prepared by formic acid reduction. X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) confirmed the formation of Pt fcc nanocrystals (with average sizes between 3 and 4 nm). Thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) corroborated the Pt loadings and the Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) images show a homogeneous distribution of the Pt nanoparticles, with larger particles at higher Pt percentages. Electrochemical measurements reveal that higher Pt percentages promote the activity of the glycerol electroxidation reaction, resulting in lower onset potentials, higher current densities and reduced poisoning of the Pt surface. Single cell tests confirm these results, with greater maximum power density at higher Pt percentages, although the glycerol crossover effect starts to become significant in the 60% Pt/C catalyst, owing to the reduced thickness of this catalytic layer. A final product selectivity analysis indicates that tartronate is the preferential glycerol electroxidation product, along with glycerate and oxalate in lower proportions, with minor amounts of glycolate and mesoxalate. In general, a thicker catalytic layer is associated with the formation of more oxidized products.
In the search for a new class of bone-sparing agents for treating osteopenic disorders, we hypothesized that tartronic acid derivatives, sharing the chemical characteristics both of bisphosphonates and of Gla residues contained in matrix proteins such as osteocalcin, could positively affect bone metabolism. A series of tartronates was therefore tested for their ability to affect bone metabolism. In vitro resorption tests were performed examining pit formation by freshly isolated rat and rabbit osteoclasts plated onto bone slices and exposed to the drugs for 48 h. Tartronates bearing a linear side-chain (DF 1222 and DF 1363A) were the most effective in inhibiting pit excavation in the pM-nM range. Tartronates did not affect osteoclast viability, number, adhesion, or tartrate resistant acid phosphatase activity. Transient cell retraction was observed in osteoclasts plated onto glass and exposed to DF 1222. The maximal effect was seen in cells treated for 4 h at a concentration of 1 pM. DF 1222 accelerated mineralization in cultures of periosteal cells without affecting other osteoblast-like functions. This product was therefore tested in vivo in ovariectomized mice. Bone mass in femur was evaluated, by ash gravimetry, 21 days after ovariectomy. Unfortunately, DF 1222, the most active of tartronates in vitro, was inactive in this test because of its high hydrophilicity and the subsequent too short residence time. On the contrary, its tetrahydropyranyl ether derivative, DF 1363A, endowed with a significantly higher lipophilicity, showed a dose-dependent bone-sparing effect when administered subcutaneously at 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg/die, thus confirming the activity seen in in vitro tests. Because of their feasible parallel effect on both bone resorption and formation, tartronate derivatives may be tested to candidate this class of products for clinical studies.
NADP-linked malic enzyme [EC 1.1.1.40] was highly purified from Escherichia coli W cells. The purified enzyme was homogeneous as judged by ultracentrifugation and gel electrophoresis. The apparent molecular weights obtained by sedimentation equilibrium analysis, from diffusion and sedimentation constants, and by disc electrophoresis at various gel concentrations were 471,000, 438,000, and 495,000, respectively. The subunit molecular weights obtained by sedimentation equilibrium analysis in the presence of 6 M guanidine hydrochloride and gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate were 76,000 and 82,000, respectively. The sedimentation coefficient (S(0)20, W) was 13.8S, and the molecular activity was 44,700 min-1 at 30 degrees C. The amino acid composition of the enzyme was determined, and the results were compared with those of NAD-linked malic enzyme from the same organism and those of pigeon liver NADP-linked malic enzyme. The partial specific volume was calculated to be 0.738 ml/g. The Km value for L-malate was 2.3 mM at pH 7.4. Malonate, tartronate, glutarate, and DL-tartrate competitively inhibited the activity. The saturation profile for L-malate exhibited a marked cooperativity in the presence of both chloride ions and acetyl-CoA. However, acetyl-CoA alone did not show cooperativity or produce inhibition in the absence of chloride ions. Vmax and Km were determined as a function of pH. The optimum pH for the reaction was 7.8. Inspection of the Dixon plots suggested that three ionizable groups of the enzyme are essential for the enzyme activity. In addition to the oxidative decarboxylase activity, the enzyme preparation exhibited divalent metal ion-dependent oxaloacetate decarboxylase and alpha-keto acid reductase activities. Based on the above results, the molecular properties of the enzymatic reaction are discussed.
The influence of metal particle size of monometallic and bimetallic supported catalysts (Au, Pd, Au–Pd)/C was studied using as a model reaction the liquid phase oxidation of glycerol. By tuning the metal particle size from 2 to 16 nm a progressive decrease of activity and simultaneously an increase in the selectivity to sodium glycerate was observed. Moreover, the influence of the temperature was studied and it was found that by increasing the temperature, only with a large particle size the formed glycerate was retained and not over-oxidized to tartronate.
Abstract The published ‘charge shuttle’ mechanism of enolase (Lebioda, L. and Stec, B. (1991) Biochemistry 30, 2817–2822) assigns Glu-211 the task of orienting a water molecule that serves as the catalytic base which removes the proton from carbon-2 of the substrate. We prepared the E211Q mutant of yeast enolase 1 by site-directed mutagenesis. It appears to be folded correctly and to respond similarly to many of the normal ligands of enolase: it is stabilized against thermal denaturation by conformational Mg 2+ and by Mg 2+ and substrate and binds the chromophoric substrate analogue d -tartronate semialdehyde-2-hosphate (TSP) with affinity comparable to that of the native enzyme. However, it has only 0.01% (10 −4 ) of the activity of native enolase under standard assay conditions and does not exhibit significantly more activity at various pH values or higher concentrations of substrate and Mg 2+ . Its ability to produce the form of enzyme-bound and reacted TSP that absorbs at shorter wavelengths is greatly slowed, while the longer wavelength absorbing form is produced rapidly. Overall, these observations are consistent with the hypothetical mechanism.
The common thread of this PhD Thesis is the use of sol-immobilised noble metal nanoparticles prepared by a ::: novel synthetic route, where the addition of the stabilising agent has been avoided. ::: The first part of the Thesis presents the development of a novel sol-immobilisation route without the addition of stabilisers (e.g., PVA, PVP). A monometallic 1% wt Au/TiO2 and a bimetallic 1% wt AuPd/TiO2 catalysts were prepared and extensively characterised by different techniques in order to gain information including metal loading, nanoparticles morphology and oxidation state of the metals. It has been shown that despite the stabilisers absence, is still possible to obtain materials exhibiting very similar characteristics with respect to the traditional catalysts prepared by PVA and PVP addition. The catalytic activity of the monometallic sample was firstly evaluated for the oxidation of CO (gas -phase) and glycerol (liquid-phase ::: under basic conditions), whereas the bimetallic was employed for the solvent-free oxidation of benzyl alcohol. ::: It has been shown that for the liquid phase reactions, samples behave in a very similar manner to the traditional ::: ones. However, the stabiliser-free catalyst was not active as expected for CO oxidation: reasons for this ::: behaviour might be related to the nanoparticles size or to the presence of poisonin g species (i.e., chloride) on ::: the catalyst’s surface. ::: The second part is focused on the study of glycerol oxidation in basic conditions by using the novel mono ::: and bimetallic catalysts synthesized stabiliser-free and their comparison in terms of activity and selectivity to ::: the traditional catalysts synthesized by common stabilising agents PVA and PVP. It has been shown on the first instance that the selectivity towards the main products tartronate and glycerate follows a trend depending on the presence and nature of the stabiliser, with the stabiliser-free samples being more selective towards the former, followed by PVA and PVP. Experiments at short time and using glyceric acid as starting material revealed that the tartronate cannot only arise as product of secondary oxidation of glycerate. Finally, experiments where selected aliquots of PVA and PVP were added during reaction showed that the nature of ::: the polymer affects the conversion and selectivity. However, the mechanisms involved have not been fully ::: understood yet. ::: The third part presents the catalytic activity of a series of Au and AuPd sol-immobilised catalysts for the plasmonic oxidation of glycerol under neutral conditions. It has been shown tha t the catalysts prepared by sol-immobilisation are active under plasmonic conditions. The effect of the presence and nature of the stabilising polymer, the wavelength and time of illumination and of calcination have also been investigated. ::: The catalytic activity was proven to be related to the plasmonic effect by performing reactions using different ::: wavelengths of illumination; the nature of the polymer was proven to affect the plasmonic response of the catalyst; stabiliser-free samples activity significantly improved after calcination, likely due to a stro nger ::: nanoparticle/support interaction. The plasmonic effect has also been observed for a series of 1% wt AuPd/TiO2 ::: catalysts prepared with different Au:Pd ratios, with enhancement in the conversion increasing with the increase ::: in the gold content.
The beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases are a structurally conserved family of enzymes that catalyze the NAD(+) or NADP(+)-dependent oxidation of specific beta-hydroxyacid substrates like beta-hydroxyisobutyrate. These enzymes share distinct domains of amino acid sequence homology, most of which now have assigned putative functions. 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and beta-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase, the most well-characterized members, both appear to be readily inactivated by chemical modifiers of lysine residues, such as 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonate (TNBS). Peptide mapping by ESI-LCMS showed that inactivation of beta-hydroxyisobutyrate dehydrogenase with TNBS occurs with the labeling of a single lysine residue, K248. This lysine residue is completely conserved in all family members and may have structural importance relating to cofactor binding. The structural framework of the beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase family is shared by many bacterial homologues. One such homologue from E. coli has been cloned and expressed as recombinant protein. This protein was found to have enzymatic activity characteristic of tartronate semialdehyde reductase, an enzyme required for bacterial biosynthesis of D-glycerate. A homologue from H. influenzae was also cloned and expressed as recombinant protein. This protein was active in the oxidation of D-glycerate, but showed approximately ten-fold higher activity with four carbon substrates like beta-D-hydroxybutyrate and D-threonine. This enzyme might function in H. influenzae, and other species, in the utilization of polyhydroxybutyrates, an energy storage form specific to bacteria. Cloning and characterization of these bacterial beta-hydroxyacid dehydrogenases extends our knowledge of this enzyme family.
Respiration measurements. Oxygen consumption was measured with a Clark oxygen electrode (model 53; Yellow Springs Instrument Co., Yellow Springs, OH). Tumor target cells were removed from the macrophage monolayers and permeabilized with 0.007% digitonin in respiration medium (0.25 M sucrose, 20 mM Hepes, pH 7.2, 2 mM Pi, 10 mM MgCI2, and 1 mM EGTA) as previously described (7) . Digitonin treatment selectively permeabilizes the plasma membrane while not affecting mitochondrial function (13) . This permits access of mitochondrial substrates into the cell interior. Permeabilized cells were washed by centrifugation ( 180 g for 5 min) to eliminate endogenous substrates and to permit added substrates to initiate respiration. To determine the effectiveness of the permeabilization procedure, cells were counted in the presence of trypan blue (cells do not exclude trypan blue after successful permeabilization). Measurement of L1210 respiration was initiated by adding permeabilized L1210 cells to respiratory medium supplemented with 1 mM ADP and appropriate respiratory substrate as described (7) . However, for measurement of L10 cell respiration, cells were incubated in respiratory medium containing appropriate respiratory substrate before initiating state 3 respiration rate by adding 1 mM ADP. For both cell lines, the respiration medium was supplemented with 0.7% fatty acidfree BSA during measurement of 02 consumption. When citrate or isocitrate-dependent respiration was measured in L1O cells, 5 mM tartronate (2-hydroxy malonate) was added to the respiration medium as an exchange partner for the tricarboxylate-transporter, which facilitates the entry of citrate and isocitrate into the mitochondrial matrix (14, 15 (16) . Cells were permeabilized with 0.007% digitonin as described above to remove cytoplasmic proteins and then lysed with 0.2% Triton X-100 in 0.15 M NaCl buffered with 30 mM triethanolamine-HCI, pH 7.2. Lysate was centrifuged (5,000 g for 15 min) and the supernatant was immediately assayed for aconitase activity at 250C in the presence of 0.02% BSA. The reaction was started with the addition of0.2mM cis-aconitate and enzyme activity was determined from the initial reaction rate. An extinction coefficient of 3.41 cm-' mM-' was used for cis-aconitate (17) . Isocitrate dehydrogenase was measured spectrophotometrically in the lysates by following the reduction of NADP+ with isocitrate as substrate. Isocitrate (1 mM final concentration) was added to the lysates to start the reaction and the coupled reduction of NADP+ (0.1 mM) was followed at 340 nm. Reaction was performed at 370C in a buffer, pH 7.2, containing 30 mM triethanolamine-HCl, 0.15 M NaCl, and 10 mM MgCI2.
NADP(+)-dependent D-threonine dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.-), which catalyzes the oxidation of the 3-hydroxyl group of D-threonine, was purified to homogeneity from a crude extract of Pseudomonas cruciviae IFO 12047. The enzyme had a molecular mass of about 60,000 Da and consisted of two identical subunits. In addition to D-threonine, D-threo-3-phenylserine, D-threo-3-thienylserine, and D-threo-3-hydroxynorvaline were also substrates. However, the other isomers of threonine and 3-phenylserine were inert. The enzyme showed maximal activity at pH 10.5 for the oxidation of D-threonine. The enzyme required NADP+. NAD+ showed only slight activity. The enzyme was not inhibited by EDTA, o-phenanthroline, alpha,alpha9-dipyridyl, HgCl2, or p-chloromercuribenzoate but was inhibited by tartronate, malonate, pyruvate, and DL-2-hydroxybutyrate. The inhibition by these organic acids was competitive against D-threonine. Initial-velocity and product inhibition studies suggested that the oxidation proceeded through a sequential ordered Bi Bi mechanism. The Michaelis constants for D-threonine and NADP+ were 13 and 0.12 mM, respectively. Images
The enzyme had a molecular mass of about 60,000 Da and consisted of two identical subunits. In addition to D-threonine, D-threo-3-phenylserine, D-threo-3-thienylserine, and D-threo-3-hydroxynorvaline were also substrates. However, the other isomers of threonine and 3-phenylserine were inert. The enzyme showed maximal activity at pH 10.5 for the oxidation of D-threonine. The enzyme required NADP+. NAD+ showed only slight activity. The enzyme was not inhibited by EDTA, o-phenanthroline, c,a'-dipyridyl, HgC12, or p-chloromercuribenzoate but was inhibited by tartronate, malonate, pyruvate, and DL-2-hydroxybutyrate. The inhibition by these organic acids was competitive against D-threonine. Initial-velocity and product inhibition studies suggested that the oxidation proceeded through a sequential ordered Bi Bi mechanism. The Michaelis constants for D-threonine and NADP+ were 13 and 0.12 mM, respectively.
Stopped-flow experiments obtained in the pre-steady-state time scale of the NAD-malic enzyme reaction exhibit a lag prior to the attainment of steady state. Previous results from isotope effect studies in which the deuterium isotope effect on Vmax decreases to a value of 1 at low pH have been interpreted as suggesting a slow release of NADH [Kiick, D. M., Harris, B. G., & Cook, P. F. (1986) Biochemistry 25, 227-236]. The latter, however, requires a burst in the pre-steady-state time course, and thus the previous data have been reinterpreted in view of the observed lag. Preincubation with NAD and/or Mg increases the lag rate, with the latter having the greater effect, while preincubation with Mg and malate (or a malate analog) eliminates the lag. Data suggest a slow isomerization of E:NAD that is increased by addition of malate prior to NAD in the presence of Mg. The lag is also eliminated at low pH as a result of the overall rate being limited by the isomerization; that is, the isomerization is pH-dependent. Fumarate, an activator of the NAD-malic enzyme, when preincubated with enzyme also eliminates the lag, suggesting that the activator preferentially binds the isomerized form of the enzyme or increases the isomerization rate, or both. Stopped-flow data are corroborated by circular dichroism experiments. The unliganded enzyme is approximately 50% alpha-helix on the basis of secondary structural analysis. Binding of NAD and Mg exhibits a substantial change, with a further change observed upon binding the malate analog tartronate.
Abstract Palladium and platinum–ruthenium nanoparticles supported on multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) are prepared by the impregnation-reduction procedure. The materials obtained, Pd / MWCNT and Pt–Ru / MWCNT , are characterized by TEM, ICP-AES and XRPD. Electrodes coated with Pd / MWCNT are scrutinized for the oxidation of methanol, ethanol or glycerol in 2 M KOH solution in half cells. The catalyst is very active for the oxidation of all alcohols, with glycerol providing the best performance in terms of specific current density and ethanol showing the lowest onset potential. Membrane-electrode assemblies have been fabricated using Pd / MWCNT anodes, commercial cathodes and anion-exchange membrane and evaluated in both single passive and active direct alcohol fuel cells fed with aqueous solutions of 10 wt.% methanol, 10 wt.% ethanol or 5 wt.% glycerol. Pd / MWCNT exhibits unrivalled activity as anode electrocatalyst for alcohol oxidation. The analysis of the anode exhausts shows that ethanol is selectively oxidized to acetic acid, detected as acetate ion in the alkaline media of the reaction, while methanol yields carbonate and formate. A much wider product distribution, including glycolate, glycerate, tartronate, oxalate, formate and carbonate, is obtained from the oxidation of glycerol. The results obtained with Pt–Ru / MWCNT anodes in acid media are largely inferior to those provided by Pd / MWCNT electrodes in alkaline media.
This manuscript presents the results of an alkaline glycerol electroreforming reactor for the production of hydrogen mounted in an alkaline membrane fuel cell. Commercial PtRu/C and Pt/C were used as catalysts in the anode and cathode, respectively, with a KOH-doped polybenzimidazole (PBI) membrane. The influence of the fuel composition (a glycerol and KOH solution) and the flow rate were studied to assess the electrochemical performance, hydrogen yield, and efficiency compared to the values predicted by Faraday’s law. The best conditions for cell performance corresponded to 2 mol L−1 glycerol, 4 mol L−1 KOH, and a fuel flow rate of 1 mL min−1, which yielded a hydrogen production close to that dictated by Faraday’s law. Moreover, potassium glycerate and tartronate could be obtained as the main added-value products from the glycerol electrooxidation, with minor amounts of mesoxalate, oxalate, glycolate, and formate. In general, more oxidized products, especially potassium tartronate, are favored at low glycerol and high KOH concentrations. A preliminary analysis of the energy consumption indicated lower requirements compared to a KOH-doped PBI alkaline water electrolysis system, although the performance was limited by the low current densities (and concomitant hydrogen yield rate) that could be obtained. Finally, stoichiometric calculations demonstrate that the hydrogen obtained could be used for biodiesel hydrogenation to improve its properties while still maintaining a surplus of hydrogen.
We found a significant activity of hydroxypyruvate isomerase in Escherichia coli clone cells harboring an E. coli gene (called orf b0508 or gip), which is located downstream of the glyoxylate carboligase gene. We newly designated the gene hyi. The enzyme was purified from cell extracts of the E. coli clone. The enzyme had a molecular mass of 58 kDa and was composed of two identical subunits. The optimum pH for the isomerization of hydroxypyruvate was 6.8–7.2. The enzyme required no cofactor. It exclusively catalyzed the isomerization between hydroxypyruvate and tartronate semialdehyde. The apparent Km value for hydroxypyruvate was 12.5 mM. The amino acid sequence of E. coli hydroxypyruvate isomerase is highly similar to those of glyoxylate-induced proteins, Gip, found widely from prokaryotes to eukaryotes.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the active site-specific reagents and transition-state analogs for enolase. There is only one active site-specific reagent known to form a covalent derivative with the enzyme— namely, glycidol phosphate (1,2- epoxipropanol 3-phosphate). In addition, there are pairs of analogs, D-tartronate semialdehyde 2-phosphate and 3-amino enolpyruvate phosphate, which form very tight noncovalent complexes with the active site of enolases. Because of the strong UV absorbance of the complexes, these compounds have been useful in establishing the number of active sites in the enzyme, and as likely transition state analogs, their interaction with the enzyme has shed some light on the mechanism of catalysis. Glycidol phosphate is readily prepared by phosphorylation of commercially available glycidol with POC1 3 , and it satisfies the major requirements for an active site-specific reagent for rabbit muscle enolase. The chapter describes dissociation constants and stoichiometry of enolase-inhibitor complexes, the spectral properties of the enolase inhibitors tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (Ttal 2P) and 3-amino enolpyruvate, and the synthesis of Ttal 2P from commercially available D-gluconolactone. A representation of the complexes of Ttal 2P and Am- e PrvP with the active site of enolase is given as a basis for the comparison with the proposed transition state in the reversible dehydration of glycerate 2-phosphate to enolpyruvate phosphate. It is shown that the enolase-analog complexes form only in the presence of Mg 2+ and that both compounds compete with substrate for the active site support the proposition that the two compounds behave as true substrate (transition state) analogs.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: present invention relates to compositions capable of sequestering calcium ions, derived in part from renewable carbohydrate feedstock. Described is a calcium sequestering composition, containing a combination of: (a) from 40 to 60 wt% of at least one glucarate salt, from 5 to 15 wt% of at least one gluconate salt, from 3 to 9 wt% of at least one 5-keto-gluconate salt, from 5 to 10 wt% of at least one tartrate salt, from 5 to 10 wt% of at least one tartronate salt and from 1 to 5 wt% of at least one glycolate salt; (b) from 1 to 50 wt% of at least one oxo acid anion salt; and (c) from 1 to 10 wt% of at least one citric acid salt, as well as a detergent composition containing a calcium sequestering composition. EFFECT: producing calcium sequestering compositions used in cleaning compositions, which are soft cleaning agents relative to environment. 10 cl, 13 tbl
Abstract Activation of yeast enolase by Cd 2+ exhibits properties similar to activation by the physiological cofactor Mg 2+ . The activity is weakly stimulated, then inhibited by increasing ionic strength. The activity increases, then falls with increasing Cd 2+ concentration. The effect of pH on activity produced by Cd 2+ is very similar to that produced by Mg 2+ , except that the Cd 2+ profile is shifted one pH unit to more alkaline values, and the maximum activity of the Cd 2+ -enzyme is about 10% of that of the Mg 2+ -enzyme. The apparent kinetic parameters of Cd 2+ activation show little effect of pH except for inhibition by high concentrations of Cd 2+ : the apparent K i increases sharply with pH. This is interpreted as the result of Cd 2+ being a less effective “catalytic” metal ion, and Cd 2+ being more effective in stabilizing the enzyme at alkaline pH's. The similarity of effects of ionic strength, divalent cation, and pH may be due to interaction with the same six sites per mole of enzyme. We also characterized the dependence of what is believed to be the enzyme-catalyzed enolization of a substrate analog, D-tartronate semialdehyde-2-phosphate (TSP) on similar parameters of pH, ionic strength, etc. The putative enolization is dependent on catalytic metal ion, although the TSP binds to the conformational Cd 2+ - enzyme complex. The reaction is very slow and very pH dependent, increasing with pH with a midpoint of reaction velocity at pH 8.7. There is a strong qualitative correlation between pH dependencies of reaction velocity of substrate conversion and TSP enolization and absorbance of the enzyme-bound TSP enolate, whether with Mg 2+ or Cd 2+ as cofactor. The slowness of the Cd 2+ -TSP reaction is not limited by proton release or any reaction involving covalent bonds to hydrogen. The apparent reaction rate constant increases linearly with Cd 2+ concentration. Addition of excess ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid reverses the TSP reaction, but again very slowly. The binding of Cd 2+ to the catalytic sites is characterized by low association and dissociation rate constants.
