For instance, in Figure 3B we know that the activator (Ac) is reduced ferredoxin, which through 294 ferredoxin-thioredoxin reductase forms reduced thioredoxin which in-turn activates dihydroxy-295 acid dehydratase (E) by reducing a disulfide bond. This allows the enzyme to act on 2,3-dihydroxy-296 3-methylbutanoate (A), to form 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (P). For this reaction, KOPTIC 297 lumps the intermediate regulatory steps into a single step, but with low fit error (0.17%), giving 298 confidence that the derived kinetic parameters returned by KOPTIC capture the net effects of the 299 intermediate steps for this reaction. Other reactions were fit by low (<10%) or moderate to high 300 error (27 to 37%), depending on the efficacy of the single model regulation step capturing the 301 multi-step mechanism. It is likely that the low fit error cases are activated by the transient 302 activation mechanism (Figure 3A). One enzyme with relatively high error (ATPase, 37%) has high 303 error because Trx activates ATPase by forming an enzyme complex [39], resulting in significantly 304 more complex reaction kinetics which are more difficult to fit with a single step. High fit error 305 cases are likely mechanisms with complex activation. Generally, KOPTIC is more successful in 306 simplifying regulation mechanisms to a single step when the regulation mechanism is less 307 complex. Despite KOPTIC's predictive success in the examples listed in
Abstract The growth in culture of methionine-dependent transformed cells of human, rat and mouse origin was arrested in the absence of L-methionine (Met) but took place in the presence of 4-methylthio 2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), the keto acid of Met. From 24 hr after seeding, cells grew in 0.1 mM MTOB medium at a rate comparable to that in 0.1 mM Met medium. Using [ 35 S]MTOB, it was found that the Met synthesized was used in normal MRC-5 cells and in transformed HeLa cells to the same extent for protein, adenosylmethionine and adenosylhomocysteine syntheses. However, when the free Met content was examined, it was found to be 3-fold greater in HeLa than in MRC-5 cells. To examine the importance of this free Met for the growth of transformed cells, the transaminase responsible for converting MTOB to Met was chosen as a target enzyme for the synthesis of compounds with potential inhibitory activity. Since this is a multisubstrate enzyme, reduced Schiff bases were prepared containing both pyridoxal or other aromatic groups, as one constituent, and L-Met or other amino-acids in the free acid or ester or amide form, as the other constituent. Only esters containing the pyridoxal moiety and Met or certain of its structural analogues exhibited good selective growth inhibitory activity in that there was little (20%) or no effect on the growth of normal MRC-5 and derm cells, respectively, while that of transformed HeLa, HEp-2 and L1210 cells was strongly inhibited (80%). This inhibition was accompanied by a concomitant decrease in the activity of the MTOB transaminase in both HeLa and MRC-5 cells treated with 3c the most potent inhibitor. However, using [ 35 S]MTOB it was found that MTOB itself accumulated 48% in HeLa but only 12% in MRC-5 cells treated with 3c. On the contrary [ 35 S]Met formed from [ 35 S]MTOB increased 3.7-fold in MRC-5 inhibitor-treated cells showing 20% growth inhibition whereas it decreased 38% in HeLa-treated cells showing 80% growth inhibition. This decrease in cellular Met in HeLa is not responsible for growth arrest. Indeed the growth of HeLa cells could not be restored by adding a 10-fold excess of Met. Since MTOB can alleviate Met-dependence, the intracellular homeostasis of this metabolite may play a hitherto unsuspected role in controlling cell growth.
Methional is a potent inducer of apoptosis in an interleukin 3-dependent murine lymphoid cell line BAF3 b0 when it is added to the culture medium. In these cells transfected with the bcl2 gene, BAF3 bcl2, the apoptotic-inducing activity of methional is dramatically reduced. The addition of disulfiram (an inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase) in order to reduce methional oxidation brought about an increase in apoptosis in BAF3 b0 but not in BAF3 bcl2 cells. In contrast, the addition of quercetin (an inhibitor of aldehyde reductase) in an attempt to diminish methional reduction increased apoptosis in both BAF3 b0 and BAF3 bcl2 cells. The extent of DNA fragmentation in BAF3 bcl2 cells approached that in BAF3 b0 cells in the presence of quercetin and exogenous methional, suggesting a defect in methional biosynthesis in BAF3 bcl2 cells. Direct evidence for this was obtained by measuring labelled methional in cells incubated with the sodium, salt of [U-14C]4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), the precursor of methional. The 80% decrease in labelled methional in BAF3 bcl2 compared with BAF3 b0 cells was accompanied by a concomitant rise in the transamination of [14C]MTOB to [14C]methionine in BAF3 bcl2 cells. Inhibition of the transaminase, however, by a synthetic transition-state-type compound, pyridoxal-L-methionine ethyl ester, induced apoptosis in BAF3 b0 but not in BAF3 bcl2 cells, confirming that the defect in BAF3 bcl2 cells was not in the transaminase itself but rather in the oxidative decarboxylation step MTOB --> methional. In addition, no evidence was obtained for the synthesis of [14C]malondialdehyde from [14C]methional in BAF3 bcl2 cells. As these cells show no deficiency in their content of reactive oxygen species compared with that of BAF3 b0 cells, they may possess some other defect in the beta-hydroxylase enzyme system itself.
Abstract L-Phosphinotricin (L-PPT) is an active compound of a broad-spectrum herbicide used worldwide. Asymmetric synthesis of L-PPT from 4-(hydroxy(methyl)phosphoryl)-2-oxobutanoic acid (PPO) using transaminase is of great significance due to the 100% theoretical yield and high enantioselectivity. In this study, a new transaminase from Pseudomonas fluorescens ZJB09-108 (named as Pf-TA) was cloned and expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3). The amino acid sequence analysis showed that the maximum sequence identity of Pf-TA with other transaminases is 74%. This recombinant Pf-TA exhibited a good temperature stability and pH stability. The Km and kcat of Pf-TA toward PPO were 34.02 mmol L−1 and 11.3 s−1, respectively. After optimization of the L-PPT biosynthesis catalyzed by whole-cells of E. coli harboring transaminase, >99% yield of L-PPT with 99.9% of enantiomeric excess was attained at a PPO concentration of 100 mM. High yield of L-PPT (79%) with 99.9% enantiomeric excess was achieved at high PPO concentration of 500 mM as well. These results suggested the recombinant transaminase is a potential candidate for the biosynthesis of L-PPT from PPO.
One-carbon metabolism is an ubiquitous metabolic pathway that encompasses the reactions transferring formyl-, hydroxymethyl- and methyl-groups bound to tetrahydrofolate for the synthesis of purine nucleotides, thymidylate, methionine and dehydropantoate, the precursor of coenzyme A. An alternative cyclic pathway was designed that substitutes 4-hydroxy-2-oxobutanoic acid (HOB), a compound absent from known metabolism, for the amino acids serine and glycine as one-carbon donors. It involves two novel reactions, the transamination of l-homoserine and the transfer of a one-carbon unit from HOB to tetrahydrofolate releasing pyruvate as coproduct. Since canonical reactions regenerate l-homoserine from pyruvate by carboxylation and subsequent reduction, every one-carbon moiety made available for anabolic reactions originates from CO2. The HOB-dependent pathway was established in an Escherichia coli auxotroph selected for prototrophy using long-term cultivation protocols. Genetic, metabolic and biochemical evidence support the emergence of a functional HOB-dependent one-carbon pathway achieved with the recruitment of the two enzymes l-homoserine transaminase and HOB-hydroxymethyltransferase and of HOB as an essential metabolic intermediate. Escherichia coli biochemical reprogramming was achieved by minimally altering canonical metabolism and leveraging on natural selection mechanisms, thereby launching the resulting strain on an evolutionary trajectory diverging from all known extant species.
A UV-guided fractionation of the AcOEt extract of the fermentation broth of Guignardia sp., an endophytic fungus from the leaves of the tropical tree Spondias mombin, resulted in the identification of the new metabolite (−)-(2S,5Z)-2-(1-methylethyl)-4-oxo-5-(phenylmethylene)-1,3-dioxolane-2-carboxylic acid (1), isolated as NH salt 1a. The metabolite 1 was designated (−)-(S)-guignardic acid. This first member of a new class of natural compounds contains a dioxolanone moiety formed by fusion of 2-oxo-3-phenylpropanoic acid (phenylpyruvic acid) and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (dimethylpyruvic acid), products of the oxidative deamination of phenylalanine and valine, respectively. The structure of 1a was deduced from spectral data (UV, IR, MS, 1H- and 13C-NMR) and confirmed by asymmetric synthesis.
The determination of the acid-base dissociation constants, and thus the pKa values, of a-keto acids such as pyruvic acid is complex because of the existence of these acids in their hydrated and nonhydrated or oxo state. Equilibria involved in the hydration and dehydration of the a-keto group of pyruvic acid and three other a-keto acids, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid, were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, at constant ionic strength, 0.15, and 25
Photocatalytic asymmetric reduction of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid giving 2-hydroxy-3-methylbutanoic acid has been carried out in up to 60% ee in aqueous methanol with chiral BINAP–Rh(I) complexes and semiconductor photocatalysts, TiO2 or CdS.
Two methods for constructing dihydro-1,4-thiazine 4 were described. 1,3-Thiazolidines 5 were converted to dihydro-1,4-thiazines 4 by chlorinolysis through the unisolable chlorosulfonium salt 10 and sulfenyl chloride 11. Oxidation of the sulfides 5 gave a mixture of pairs of diasteromers 1,3-thiazolidine 1-oxyde 6. In the presence of acid catalyst, both sulfoxides were converted to dihydrothiazine 4 through sulfenic acid 22. In this reaction the stepwise ring opening involving carbocation 23 seems more probable. The structures of 4 were proven by the independent synthesis involving 3-bromo-2-oxobutanoic acid derivatives
The Prins reaction of a chiral alkylidene morpholinone derived from (1R,2S)-ephedrine and 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid proceeds with good diastereoselectivity to generate a spiro bis-acetal. Lewis acid mediated diastereoselective reductive cleavage of the spiro acetal and subsequent removal of the ephedrine portion generates a α-hydroxy-γ-methoxy carboxamide which is readily converted to (S)-(+)-pantolactone with high enantiomeric excess.
According to an embodiment of the present invention, a method for producing 2-hydroxy-gamma-butyrolactone comprises the steps of: preparing 3-hydroxypropionic acid; obtaining 3-hydroxy-propionyl-CoA by contacting coenzyme A (CoA) and a first enzyme with the 3-hydroxypropionic acid; obtaining 4-hydroxy-2-oxobutanoic acid by contacting the 3-hydroxy-propionyl-CoA with formic acid and a second enzyme; obtaining 2, 4-dihydroxy-butanoic acid by contacting a third enzyme with the 4-hydroxy-2-oxobutanoic acid; and obtaining 2-hydroxy-gamma-butyrolactone by contacting a fourth enzyme with the 2,4-dihydroxybutanoic acid. According to the present invention, 2-hydroxy-gamma-butyrolactone can be produced by using low cost saccharides and glycerol.
The biosynthesis of methyl group donors such as S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM) and of cysteine (Cys) are essential for the synthesis of methylated elements of cell membrane structures such as phosphatidylcholine and of antioxidants such as S-methyl-a-ketobutyric acid (KMB), taurin and glutathione. These central functions are warranted by the homeostasis of methionine metabolism keeping the overall cellular antioxidative system at high fidelity. If this system is out of balance, a vast amount of pathological processes may be induced mainly concerning nervous disorders and atheromatous developments. Homocysteine (HC) as one member in this amphibolic process, how ever, posseses prooxidative functions which are biochemically distinct to the reactivities of cys teine (Preibisch et a l, 1993; Preibisch and Elstner, 1994) . As recently reported, the pyridoxalphosphate-glutamate Schiff-base has strongly antioxi dative properties preventing damage by organic hydroperoxides (Meyer et al, 1992) . In earlier papers (Konze and Elstner, 1976; Saran et al, A bbreviations: Cys, cysteine; HC, homocysteine; HCTL, homocysteinethiolactone; Cu, copper; KMB. 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid; Met, methionine; PyP, pyrid oxal phosphate; LDL, low density lipoprotein; TA, transaminase; DOPA, dihydroxyphenylalanine.
4-Methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB) is the final compound of the methionine salvage pathway that converts the polyamine byproduct methylthioadenosine to adenine and methionine. Here we find that MTOB inhibits growth of several human cell lines in a dose-dependent manner. Growth inhibition was specific for MTOB as we did not observe any inhibition with other chemically related compounds. MTOB treatment causes apoptosis and reduction of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity but not ODC mRNA. To determine if MTOB exerts its effects primarily via ODC inhibition, we compared the effects of MTOB with the ODC-specific inhibitor difluoromethylornithine (DFMO). We found that MTOB was a more potent inducer of apoptosis than DFMO, lacked activation of caspase 3/7, and was able to induce apoptosis in cells lacking p53. Our results show that MTOB-induced growth inhibition and apoptosis is not simply secondary due to ODC inhibition and implies that MTOB activates apoptosis via other mechanisms.
1. An injectable polymer composition comprising: a) a salt of a peptide agent formed with a strong acid selected from the group consisting of hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, chromic acid, methanesulfonic acid, trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, bromoacetic acid, chloroacetic acid, cyanoacetic acid, 2-hlorpropanovoy acid, 2-oxobutanoic acid, 2-hlorbutanovoy acid, 4-tsianobutanovoy acid, perchloric acid and phosphoric acid; ! b) a biodegradable polymer; ! c) a pharmaceutically acceptable organic solvent which dissolves the biodegradable polymer and miscible or dispersible in aqueous or biological fluid and! d) optionally one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. ! 2. The injectable polymer composition of claim 1 in the form of a solution, suspension, gel, or semisolid. ! 3. The injectable polymer composition of claim 1, wherein the peptide agent comprises at least one basic amino group. ! 4. The injectable polymer composition of claim 1, wherein the peptide agent is selected from the group consisting of oxytocin, vasopressin, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), epidermal growth factor (EGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), prolactin, luteinizing hormone releasing factor luteinizing hormone (LHRH), agonists, LHRH, antagonists of LHRH, growth hormones, growth hormone releasing factor, insulin, erythropoietin, somatostatin, glucagon, interleukin, interferon-alpha, interferon-beta, interferon-gamma, gastritis, wall
Abstract Glucosinolates are a group of sulfur-rich thioglucoside natural products common in the Brassicaceae and related plant families. The first phase in the formation of many glucosinolates involves the chain extension of the amino acid methionine. Additional methylene groups are inserted into the side chain of methionine by a three-step elongation cycle involving 2-oxo acid intermediates. This investigation demonstrated the first step of this chain elongation cycle in a partially-purified preparation from arugula ( Eruca sativa ). The 2-oxo acid derived from methionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid, was shown to condense with acetyl-CoA to form 2-(2′-methylthioethyl)malate. The catalyst, designated as a 2-(ω-methylthioalkyl)malate synthase, belongs to a family of enzymes that mediate the condensation of acyl-CoAs with 2-oxo acids, including citrate synthase of the citric acid cycle, and 2-isopropylmalate synthase of leucine biosynthesis. The 2-(ω-methylthioalkyl)malate synthase studied here shares properties with other enzymes of this class, but appears chromatographically distinct and is found only in extracts of plant species producing glucosinolates from chain-elongated methionine derivatives. Although the principal glucosinolates of arugula are formed from methionine that has undergone two rounds of chain elongation to form dihomomethionine, studies with substrates and substrate analogs of different chain lengths showed that the isolated enzyme is responsible only for the condensation step of the first round of elongation.
Abstract 2-Oxobutanoic acid has been converted to (R)- or (S)-2-aminobutanoic acid via highly diastereocontrolled hydrogenation of the corresponding homochiral 3-ethyl-5-phenyl-3,4-dehydromorpholin-2-one derivatives.
CtBP exerts its influence over gene expression through its interaction with transcription factors to create a transcriptional repression complex. CtBP binds to protein partners (including E1A and transcription factors) through a conserved PXDLS motif first identified in adenovirus E1A, uniting DNA-binding transcriptional factors with chromatin-modifying proteins to suppress gene transcription. 13 Furthermore, single amino acid mutations in this binding sequence or the CtBP-binding cleft can appreciably alter binding and subsequent gene repression. 14, 15 CtBP is a unique transcriptional corepressor, given that it contains a D-isomer 2-hydoxyacid dehydrogenase domain that uses coenzyme NADH/NAD+ to reduce or oxidize substrates. 16 The binding of the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) or NADH induces dimerization and the transcriptional repressor activity of CtBP. However, NADH binds with a 100-fold higher affinity than NAD+ 17 and is much more effective in stimulating CtBP binding to its transcriptional partners. 18 This differential affinity may also be used by CtBP to respond to the redox state of the cell, linking the cellular NADH concentration and transcriptional activity of CtBP. 17 To date, two known molecules are able to reverse CtBPmediated transcription repression: 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), a methionine salvage pathway intermediate, 16 and CP61, a synthetic cyclic peptide designed to disrupt CtBP dimerization. 19 CP61 inhibits the homodimerization of CtBP2 with an IC 50 of 19 ± 4 µM but requires fusion to a cellpenetrating peptide for cell entry. 19 MTOB is a weak substrate for the dehydrogenase domain of CtBP with a maximum activity of approximately 100 nmol/min/mg protein. 16 Treatment with high concentrations (4 and 10 mM) of MTOB can prevent the recruitment of CtBPs to target promoters and antagonize CtBP transcriptional regulation. 12, 20 For example, in HCT116 colon cancer cells, MTOB can induce apoptosis through eviction of CtBP from the Bik promoter. 20 In addition, MTOB can shift breast cancer cells from a more mesenchymal to epithelial phenotype by preventing CtBP localization to target promoters. 12 Although high MTOB concentrations (mM) are required for inhibition of CtBP transcriptional repression, MTOB's clear antitumorigenic effect on cancer cells provides a proof of principle that small molecules could be developed to treat cancer regulated by CtBP activity.
A series of novel 3-substituted 2-oxobutanoic acids were prepared and incubated with leucine dehydrogenase giving in one case both a kinetic resolution at C-3 and reductive amination of the ketone. This is the first example of an amino acid dehydrogenase catalysed kinetic resolution and reductive amination.
The invention discloses a preparation method of 4-[hydroxy(methyl)phosphoryl]-2-oxobutanoic acid as a glufosinate intermediate. The method comprises the following steps: 1) proper organic solvent, alkaline substance and phase-transfer catalyst are added to cyclic phosphoric anhydride at the temperature of subzero 30 DEG C, stirred, heated to 25-50 DEG C, subjected to a reaction with diethyl oxalate at the room temperature and stirred, and a product is obtained through direct precipitation and filtration from the solvent; 2) water is added to the product, hydrogen chloride is introduced slowly, the pH is controlled, heating is performed, water is removed through rotary evaporation after the reaction is performed for 16 h, and a final product is obtained through vacuum drying. The method has the advantages that the problems of poor solubility and high probability of precipitation of cyclic phosphoric anhydride at a low temperature as well as high probability of ring opening of anhydride and high probability of decomposition of phosphate groups of cyclic phosphoric anhydride under an alkaline condition due to temperature increasing are solved, and the feasibility for preparing 4-[hydroxy(methyl)phosphoryl]-2-oxobutanoic acid as the glufosinate intermediate from cyclic phosphoric anhydride is realized successfully.
The inhibition of D-amino acid oxidase contained in permeabilized cells of the yeast Trigonopsis variabilis by α-keto acids (pyruvic acid, phenylpyruvic acid and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid), products of the transformation of the corresponding D-amino acids, was studied. In all cases, inhibition was of the mixed type and significant differences with respect to the inhibition shown by the enzyme from other sources such as pig kidney or the yeast Rhodotorula gracilis were observed. A study was also made of the thermal deactivation of the enzyme contained in permeabilized cells of T variabilis in the temperature range 30–50 °C in sodium phosphate and Tris hydroxylmethyl aminomethane + CaCl2 buffers. A deactivation mechanism with two steps in series is proposed to account for the variation in activity with time. The results suggest that the enzyme shows greater stability in phosphate buffer, with half-lives between 7.6 days at 30 °C and 8.6 h at 50 °C. Copyright © 2004 Society of Chemical Industry
Selenomethionine is as a good substrate as methionine for bovine liver glutamine transaminase (E.C. 2.6.1.15). Almost identical Km values for methionine, selenomethionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid and 4-methylseleno-2-oxobutanoic acid have been obtained. Like for other enzymes, also for glutamine transaminase the substitution of the sulfur atom in a substrate molecule by a selenium one does not appreciably affect the enzyme affinity. Glutamine transaminase may thus be involved in selenomethionine catabolism.
Abstract A series of novel 3- tert -butyl-7-(aryloxymethyl)-4 H -[1,3,4]thiadiazolo[2,3- c ][1,2,4]triazin-4-ones ( 5a – 5n ) were synthesized by refluxing 3,3-dimethyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (trimethyl pyruvic acid) ( 1 ) and thiocarbohydrazide ( 2 ) in ethanol as solvent for 12 h, to yield 3-mercapto-4-amino-6- tert -butyl-1,2,4-triazine-5(4 H )-one ( 3 ) (Scheme 1), then the compound ( 3 ) was condensed with different substituted aryloxyacetic acids ( 4 ) in POCl 3 at 90 °C for 8 h (Scheme 2). The structures of the newly synthesized compounds were confirmed by IR, 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR, elemental analyses and mass spectroscopic studies. Few of the synthesized compounds exhibited moderate mosquito-larvicidal and antibacterial activities. Among the novel derivatives, the compound ( 5f ) showed relatively high larvicidal activity against a malaria vector. Compounds ( 5i ) and ( 5m ) exhibited a broad spectrum antibacterial activity against Gram positive and Gram negative species and hence they may be considered as drug candidates for bacterial pathogens.
3-Thio-2-oxoalkanoic acids I, III and IV (AH3) undergo dissociation and form the carboxylate (AH2), the thiolate-carboxylate dianion (AH) and for I even a trianion (A), when AH acts as a C-acid. Formation of a carbanion-enolate was confirmed by following the dissociation of thioether II. Generally, the hydration decreases in the sequence AH3>AH2>AH. Similarly for the thioether II, the conjugate acid is more strongly hydrated than the carboxylate anion. In ester V the conjugate acid is also more strongly hydrated than the thiolate anion. Hydration of ester V is comparable to the hydration of the acid form H3A of I. Introduction of an isopropyl group in α-position in IV decreases the hydration similar to the replacement of the SH group by a SC2H5 grouping. ::: ::: In acidic solutions polarographic reduction of acid form AH3 occurs after pre-protonation of the carbonyl group, either by electron transfer to the carbonyl group followed by elimination of the sulfide anion or by hydrogenolytic cleavage of the C−S bond. At pH 3–6 the monoanion AH2 is furthermore protonated on the carboxyl group and then reduced as AH3. At pH 6–11 the monoanion AH2 is reduced, either at the CO group or with cleavage of the C−S bond. At pH 8–11 this monoanion is formed by a rapid protonation of the dianion AH. For the thioether II where such acid-base equilibrium involving the thiol form is impossible, the half-wave of wave i2A potential at pH>6 is pH-independent. In more alkaline media, base-catalyzed dehydration takes place, occurring via geminal diol anion. ::: ::: Changes in the rate of dehydration resulting from structural changes considerably affect the pH-dependences of polarographic waves, particularly of wave i1 at pH<6. Differences between the behavior of 3-thio-2-oxobutanoic acid (III) (see Fig. 6) and 3-thio-4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (IV) (see Fig. 7) similarly as for those between 3-thio-2-oxopropanoic acid (I) (see Fig. 1) and its 3-ethylthioether (II) (see Fig. 3) are most strking. ::: ::: Whereas at the DME the competition between C=O reduction and C−S cleavage is governed by differences in the rates of establishment of the acid-base equilibria, yields of preparative reductions obtained with a stirred mercury pool electrode are given by the position of these equilibria in the bulk of the solution. At the pool electrode AH3 is predominantly reduced on the CO group, monoanion AH2 shows comparable reduction of both the CO group and cleavage of the C−S bond, whereas the dianion AH is predominantly reduced at the C−S bond.
The reaction of tetra-n-butylammonium- octachloridodirhenate(III), (Bu4N)2(Re2Cl8), with molten 2-oxobutanoic acid Et(CO)CO2 Ha t 75°C afforded pale- green tetra-n-butylammonium-hexachlorido-(2-oxobutano- ato)-dirhenate(III), (Bu4N)(Re2(O2C(CO)Et)Cl6). Slow evaporation of a solution in CHCl3 yielded shiny, mint-green crystals of the dirhenate complex. The X-ray crystal structure determination (monoclinic, P21/n, a = 11.6557(3) A ˚ , b=20.5382(5)A˚,c=13.9281(3)A˚, β=112.508(1)°,Z=4) revealed the presence of (Re2(O2C(CO)Et)Cl6) � anions and tetra-n-butylammonium cations. The central (Re2) 6+ core with a Re≣Re quadruple bond of 2.2263(3) Alength is μ2-bridged by one 2-oxobutanoato ligand and additionally coordinated by six chlorido ligands. Each dirhenate unit is linked via twoRe···Cl contactsto dimeric, centrosymmetric entities of the constitution {(Re2(O2C(CO)Et)Cl6)2} 2� . In the crystal, these dimers of dinuclear complexes are sepa- rated from each other by the bulky tetra-n-butylammonium cations.
Dihydroxyfumarate and 4-methylmercapto-2-oxobutanoic acid were gifts from M. Ingelman-Sundberg (Karolinska Institute). All other reagents were of the purest grade available commercially. Buffer A was 25 mM Hepes (pH 8.0). All enzyme dilutions were made in buffer A containing bovine serum albumin at 1 mg/ml. Preparation ofE. coli Extract and Separation of Fractions A and B. Extraction of the bacteria was accomplished by treatment with lysozyme (11). A frozen bacterial pellet (150 g) was thawed in an ice bath after addition of 150 ml of 0.1 M Tris HCl buffer (pH 9.0), in the presence of 80 mM KCl, 0.3 mg of egg white lysozyme/ml, and 0.2 ug of phage T4 lysozyme/ml. The suspension was kept on ice for 45 min and then frozen (liquid nitrogen) and thawed twice and centrifuged for 45 min at 45,000 rpm in the type 65 rotor of a Beckman ultracentrifuge. The resulting supernatant solution (180 ml) contained 22 mg of protein/ml and had a pH of 7.5.
FIELD: medicine, pharmaceutics. SUBSTANCE: invention refers to medicine and pharmacology, and represents an injected polymeric composition containing: a peptide agent salt produced by strong acid selected from a group consisting from hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, sulphuric acid, nitric acid, chromic acid, methanesulphonic acid, trifluoromethanesulphonic acid, trichloroacetic acid, dichloroacetic acid, bromo-acetic acid, chloroacetic acid, cyanoacetic acid, 2-chloropropanoic acid, 2-oxobutanoic acid, 2-chlorobutanoic acid, 4-cyanobutanoic acid, perchloric acid and phosphoric acid; water-insoluble biodegradable polymer; pharmaceutically acceptable organic solvent which dissolves biodegradable polymer and water or biological fluid miscible or dispersed, and optionally one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipient where the peptide agent has an N-terminal which is not a primary amine and where the peptide agent contains at least one primary group. EFFECT: invention provides higher stability and storage period of the declared composition. 24 cl, 17 ex, 8 tbl, 6 dwg
The conversions of L-[3-2H]-(8) and D-[3-2H]-threonine (9) and of DL-(3S)-[3-2H]-2-aminobutanoic acid (10) into L-isoleucine (5) by mutant strains of Serratia marcescens were used to demonstrate that the conversions of L-(1) and D-threonine (7) into 2-oxobutanoic acid by the respective dehydratases take place with overall retention of configuration.
Esters of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid are reduced with bakers’ yeast by three methods: free bakers’ yeast in water, immobilized bakers’ yeast in water, and immobilized bakers’ yeast in hexane. Although (R)-hydroxy esters are obtained in all cases, the enantiomeric excess vanes from 3% (reduction of the methyl ester with free bakers’ yeast in water) to 93% (reduction of the butyl ester with immobilized bakers’ yeast in hexane) depending on the structure of substrate and on the reaction conditions. The mechanism of the present stereochemical control is discussed.
The globally used herbicide glufosinate-ammonium (GLA) is structurally analogous to the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, and is known to interfere with cellular mechanisms involved in the glutamatergic system. In this report, we used an in vitro model of murine primary neural stem cell culture to investigate the neurotoxicity of GLA and its main metabolite, 4-methylphosphinico-2-oxobutanoic acid (PPO). We demonstrated that GLA and PPO disturb ependymal wall integrity in the ventricular-subventricular zone (V-SVZ) and alter the neuro-glial differentiation of neural stem cells. GLA and PPO impaired the formation of cilia, with reduced Celsr2 expression after PPO exposure. GLA promoted the differentiation of neuronal and oligodendroglial cells while PPO increased B1 cell population and impaired neuronal fate of neural stem cells. These results confirm our previous in vivo report that developmental exposure to GLA alters neurogenesis in the SVZ, and neuroblast migration along the rostral migratory stream. They also highlight the importance of investigating the toxicity of pesticide degradation products. Indeed, not only GLA, but also its metabolite PPO disrupts V-SVZ homeostasis and provides a novel cellular mechanism underlying GLA-induced neurodevelopmental toxicity. Furthermore, we were able to demonstrate a neurotoxic activity of a metabolite of GLA different from that of GLA active substance for the very first time.
The determination of the acid-base dissociation constants, and thus the pKa values, of α-keto acids such as pyruvic acid is complex because of the existence of these acids in their hydrated and nonhydrated or oxo state. Equilibria involved in the hydration and dehydration of the α-keto group of pyruvic acid and three other α-keto acids, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid, were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, at constant ionic strength, 0.15, and 25 °C. Dissociation constants for the oxo (pKa(oxo)) and hydrated (pKa(hyd)) acids of each compound were estimated from the change in the degree of hydration with changes in pH and directly from the changes in chemical shifts of various hydrogen and carbons nuclei with pH. α-Keto acids showed greater hydration in their acidic forms than their carboxylate forms. The degree of hydration was sensitive to steric and electronic/resonance factors. As expected, the oxo forms of the acids were stronger acids compared with their hydrated analogs, and their dissociation constants were also sensitive to steric and electronic factors.
By reacting isobutyraldehyde with diethyl oxalate using sodium methoxide as catalyst,3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid,sodium salt was prepared by one pot.On basis of investigating the single factor level of starting materials,the best synthetic process was determined through the orthogonal experiments,are that n(sodium methoxide) ∶n(isobutyraldehyde) ∶n(sodium hydroxide) ∶n(methanol) ∶n(diethyl oxalate) =1.4 ∶1.4 ∶1.2 ∶7.5 ∶1,and the yield can reach 75%.The data of element analysis,melting point,IR and NMR for the product are consistent with the standard data,the purity exceeds 98%.
4-Aralkyl-5-aryl-3-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanones (2) have been prepared from the corresponding 4-aryl-2-oxobutanoic acids (1). The anticipated products from the reaction of the furanones (2) with o-phenylenediamine (3) have not been isolated, but products resulting from the condensation followed by retro-aldol type of reaction are obtained and determined as 3-(2-arylethyl)-2(1H)-quinoxalinones (4). Compounds 4 could be readily obtained by the condensation of 3 with 1. 4-Aryl-2-oxobutanoic acid thiosemicarbazones (5) have been cyclized to 5-(2-arylethyl)-6-azauracils (6).
The appearance and concentration of the fusel alcohol 3-methyl-1-butanol is important for the flavour of fermented foods. 3-Methyl-1-butanol is formed by yeast during the conversion of L-leucine. Identification of the enzymes and genes involved in the formation of 3-methyl-1-butanol is a major prerequisite to optimize and control the final food flavour. To identify genes involved in this metabolic route, cDNA microarrays were carried out to study yeast gene expression genome-wide. Crosshybridisation with probes from the ‘soy-yeast’ Zygosaccharomycs rouxii, responsible for flavour formation during soysauce fermentation, on Saccharomyces cerevisiae cDNA microarrays, revealed the presence of several Zr genes. However, this group (115 out of ~5000 Zr ORFs) was too small for studying the 3-methyl-1-butanol pathway. Conversely, arraydata of S. cerevisiae resulted in several clues concerning flavour formation. For example BAT2, encoding an enzyme responsible for the first step in the L-leucine breakdown, was strongly expressed in yeast grown on ethanol. In addition to the transcription data, deletion studies revealed that 3-methyl-1-butanol production stopped in S. cerevisiae lacking BAT2, indicating a major role for Bat2p. Furthermore, the microarrays showed that genes involved in branched chain amino acid biosynthesis, but also genes of amine biosynthesis, caboxylic acid- and organic acid metabolism, were altered in expression level. Interestingly, non-branched chain amino acids: aromatic amino acids, serine, arginine, glutamine, homoserine and lycine, superficially unrelated with branched chain amino acids, were also effected when L-leucine was used as nitrogen source. A subgroup of genes was significantly present, which contained regulatory elements for GCN4 and GLN3. GCN4 and GLN3 encoding transcription factors involved in nitrogen metabolism. BAP2 and BAP3, encoding permeases necessary for the uptake of L-leucine, PDX1 and YDL080c, encoding decarboxylases for 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate and ADH3, ADH5, YMR 318c and YCR105w, encoding alcohol dehydrogenases were also upregulated in S. cerevisiae. Concerning flavour formation from L-leucine, besides 3-methyl-1-butanol, also 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid and 3-methylbutyric acid emerged. The combination of metabolite formation and the expression data from cDNA microarrays thus provides strong indications of the existence of alternative pathways. Automated microtiter plates (MTP) fermentations with a pH or/and NaCl range, revealed the optimal fusel alcohol formation at pH 3.0 without NaCl. In addition to this metabolic screening, cDNA microarrays were carried out and showed a total 747 genes, which displayed significantly altered transcription activity at pH 3.0, compared to the standard pH 5.0. Further investigation on this dataset, by the web-tool SGD Gene Ontology (GO) Term Finder revealed that a significant part of these genes had a function in the metabolism of nicotinamides, vitamins, fatty acids, glutamate or carboxylic acids. From this group, 11 genes, BNA6, BNA2, BNA4, BNA3, YOR356W, RPE1, MDH3, CIT1, CIT2, KGD1 and KGD2, were appointed as promising targets for the development of improved production strains, based on their altered gene expression at pH 3.0 and literature research. Further experiments will establish the weight of these identified genes on the final taste of fermented foods.
Photo catalytic asymmetric synthesis of L-α-valine from 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid has been carried out in up to 64%e.e. in apueous solution of metbanol ammonia with chiral(+)-diop-Rh(Ⅰ)complexes(diop:2,3-o-isopropylidene-2,3-dihydroxy-1,4-bis(diphenyl-phosphino)butane)and semiconductor photocatalysts CdS,Pt/CdS,TiO_2,Pt/TiO_2 irradi-ated 10 h under 500W Xenon lamp.
S-(1,2-Dichlorovinyl)-L-homocysteine is a much more potent nephrotoxin than the corresponding cysteine S-conjugate S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (A. A. Elfarra, L. H. Lash, and M. W. Anders (1986) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83, 2667-2671). The objective of the present experiments was to test the hypothesis that the increased toxicity of homocysteine S-conjugates may be associated with the formation of the reactive metabolite 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, which may arise via a nonenzymatic retro-Michael elimination reaction from the 2-oxo acid metabolites of homocysteine S-conjugates. S-(2-Benzothiazolyl)-L-homocysteine, which was a substrate for purified bovine kidney cysteine conjugate beta-lyase (glutamine transaminase K) and whose metabolism was dependent on the presence of a 2-oxo acid, was cytotoxic in isolated rat kidney cells and was toxic to rat renal mitochondria, whereas the cysteine S-conjugate S-(2-benzothiazolyl)-L-cysteine had little effect. L-Methionine sulfoximine, L-canavanine, and the Michael acceptor methyl vinyl ketone were cytotoxic. The 2-hydroxy acid analogs of S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-homocysteine and 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-2-hydroxy-4-mercaptobutanoic acid and 2-hydroxy-3-butenoic acid, respectively, which are expected to be metabolized by rat renal L-2-hydroxy (L-amino) acid oxidase to yield 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, were also cytotoxic. To obtain evidence for the formation of 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid as a product of the metabolism of L-homocysteine S-conjugates and analogs, trapping experiments were conducted. S-(2-Benzothiazolyl)-L-homocysteine, S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-homocysteine, L-methionine sulfoximine, and L-canavanine were converted by snake venom L-amino acid oxidase to 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, which was trapped by the nucleophile methanethiol to yield 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid; the trapped product was derivatized with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and was identified by its electronic absorption spectrum and by high-performance liquid chromatography. Similar trapping experiments conducted with kidney homogenates and purified beta-lyase were not successful. The data indicate that the bioactivation of homocysteine S-conjugates and analogs involves the enzymatic formation of the corresponding 2-oxo acids followed by a nonenzymatic retro-Michael elimination reaction to yield the Michael acceptor 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, which may contribute to the observed cytotoxicity of homocysteine S-conjugates.
The gene encoding methylthioadenosine phosphorylase (MTAP), the initial enzyme in the methionine salvage pathway, is deleted in a variety of human tumors and acts as a tumor suppressor gene in cell culture (Christopher, S. A., Diegelman, P., Porter, C. W., and Kruger, W. D. (2002) Cancer Res. 62, 6639-6644). Overexpression of the polyamine biosynthetic enzyme ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) is frequently observed in tumors and has been shown to be tumorigenic in vitro and in vivo. In this paper, we demonstrate a novel regulatory pathway in which the methionine salvage pathway products inhibit ODC activity. We show that in Saccharomyces cerevisiae the MEU1 gene encodes MTAP and that Meu1delta cells have an 8-fold increase in ODC activity, resulting in large elevations in polyamine pools. Mutations in putative salvage pathway genes downstream of MTAP also cause elevated ODC activity and elevated polyamines. The addition of the penultimate salvage pathway compound 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid represses ODC levels in both MTAP-deleted yeast and human tumor cell lines, indicating that 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid acts as a negative regulator of polyamine biosynthesis. Expression of MTAP in MTAP-deleted MCF-7 breast adenocarcinoma cells results in a significant reduction of ODC activity and reduction in polyamine levels. Taken together, our results show that products of the methionine salvage pathway regulate polyamine biosynthesis and suggest that MTAP deletion may lead to ODC activation in human tumors.
The hydrogenation of 4-(2-furyl)-2-oxobutenoic acid sodium salt on a nickel catalyst has been studied. Using Raney nickel catalyst, the corresponding salts of 4-(2-furyl)-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-(2-furtyl)-2-hydroxybutanoic acid, and aliphatic hydrogenolysis products of the initial compound were obtained. The sodium salt of 2-hydroxy-4-(2-tetrahydrofuryl) butanoic acid and the condensation product 4-(2-furylethyl)-3-(2-furylmethyl)-2-oxo-3,4-didehydroglutaric acid were detected in the hydrogenolysate. A method has been developed for obtaining the sodium salts of 4-(2-furyl)-2-oxobutanoic and 4-(2-furyl)-2-hydroxybutanoic acids.
The kinetics of the nonenzymatic transamination reaction from pyridoxamine analogs with a pyridinophane structure to α-keto acids catalyzed by Zn2+ were investigated by monitoring the changes in the absorption spectra in methanol. It was found that these reactions obeyed first-order kinetics for the formation of the Zn2+ chelate of an aldimine. No appreciable change in the reaction rate was observed when the concentration of the α-keto acid was increased, indicating that the isomerization of the ketimine chelate to the aldimine chelate is the ratedetermining step. There was a considerable enhancement of the reaction rate when the molar ratio of the zinc ion to the pyridoxamine analogs was reduced from 1/1 to 0.5/1. The reaction rates corresponding to the various α-keto acids employed in the presence of an amount of Zn2+ equimolar to the pyridoxamine analog decreased in this order; phenylpyruvic acid>pyruvic acid≈4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid>3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, whereas those in the presence of hal...
The α-keto carboxylic acid, pyruvic acid (1) was found to be a very effective peroxide scavenger but is subject to an aldol-like self-condensation/polymerization reaction. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hydrogen peroxide, H2O2, scavenging ability of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (2), 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (3), and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid (phenylglyoxylic acid, 4) in the pH range 2-9 at 25°C and the effect of molecular structure on the relative reactivity. The reaction with H2O2 was followed by UV spectrophotometry at 220 or 260 nm and high-performance liquid chromatography. Pseudo-first order, buffer-independent decarboxylation kinetics were observed in the presence of molar excess H2O2. The second-order rate constants for 2-4 followed a sigmoidal shape and mechanism similar to pyruvic acid. Pyruvic acid was a superior H2O2 scavenger to 2-4 over the pH range 2-9 but 4 was more reactive than 2 and 3 at pH values above 6. There was a qualitative correlation between the degree of keto-group hydration and reactivity of the acids in the pH range 4-6 while the data above pH 7 suggested that the intrinsic decarboxylation step for 4 was faster than for pyruvic acid. Differences in reactivity to molecular structure were analyzed.
4-Methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid is the direct precursor of methional, which is a potent inducer of apoptosis in a BAF3 murine lymphoid cell line which is interleukin-3 (IL3)-dependent. Cultures treated for 8 h with methional in the presence of IL3 show extensive DNA double-strand breaks on flow cytometric analysis, increases in DNA fragmentation as measured by the amount of non-sedimentable DNA present in the 30,000 g supernatant of cell lysates and the typical laddering pattern of multiples of 180 bp seen upon agarose gel electrophoresis. No such features of apoptosis were found in cells treated with 4-methylthio 2-oxobutanoic acid or propanal, suggesting that the simultaneous presence of the methylthio group on the propanal moiety is essential for apoptosis to take place. Methional is further metabolized in cells by two reactions: oxidation via aldehyde dehydrogenase to (methylthio)propionic acid or beta-hydroxylation to malondialdehyde. The formation of malondialdehyde from methional in vitro by chemical hydroxylation under the conditions of the Fenton reaction provides a mechanism for the beta-hydroxylation which takes place in vivo. During apoptosis induced by IL3 deprivation, the ratio of 2,4-DNPH MDA to 2,4-DNPH methional is 0.94 in cells in IL3- medium compared with 0.54 in cells in IL3+ medium. These results support a role of cellular methional and malondialdehyde in apoptosis.
Methionine is an amino acid, which can be obtained exogenously via the diet and/or endogenously, by either methylation of homocysteine or transamination of 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid, through the de novo and salvage pathways, respectively (1) . Evidence from two studies suggests that the majority of methionine produced through the salvage pathway is transformed to S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), whereas methionine synthesized through the de novo pathway by homocysteine methylation is predominantly used for protein synthesis (2, 3) . SAM, in its turn, is required for the formation of spermidine and spermine, which have been suggested to affect cell proliferation (4) , and is the primary methyl donor for DNA methylation, which regulates gene expression.
The mechanism of formation of 4,5-dimethyl-3-hydroxy-2/5H/-furanone in some food-stuffs was investigated. The compound was found to result from condensation of acetaldehyde under oxidative conditions. The intermediate product of the condensation is 2-oxobutanoic acid.
Lactone analogues of 3-substituted oxindoles (=1,3-dihydro-2H-indol-2-ones) and nonbenzoid oxa-analogous isoindigoid or nonbenzoid isoindigoid dyes were prepared by the reactions of furan-2,3-diones with oxindole and Lawesson reagent (Schemes 1 and 3), respectively. So, new derivatives of 2-oxobutanoic acid, bis-furanone, and bis-pyrrolone, which are potentially biologically active compounds, were synthesized for the first time.
L-Homophenylalanine (L-Hph) is a useful chiral building block for synthesis of several drugs, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and the novel proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib. While the chemoenzymatic route of synthesis is fully developed, we investigated microbial production of L-Hph to explore the possibility of a more efficient and sustainable approach to L-Hph production. We hypothesized that L-Hph is synthesized from L-Phe via a mechanism homologous to 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid conversion to 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid during leucine biosynthesis. Based on bioinformatics analysis, we found three putative homophenylalanine biosynthesis genes, hphA (Npun_F2464), hphB (Npun_F2457), and hphCD (Npun_F2458), in the cyanobacterium Nostoc punctiforme PCC73102, located around the gene cluster responsible for anabaenopeptin biosynthesis. We constructed Escherichia coli strains harboring hphABCD-expressing plasmids and achieved the fermentative production of L-Hph from L-Phe. To our knowledge, this is the first identification of the genes responsible for homophenylalanine synthesis in any organism. Furthermore, to improve the low conversion efficiency of the initial strain, we optimized the expression of hphA, hphB, and hphCD, which increased the yield to ∼630 mg/liter. The L-Hph biosynthesis and L-Leu biosynthesis genes from E. coli were also compared. This analysis revealed that HphB has comparatively relaxed substrate specificity and can perform the function of LeuB, but HphA and HphCD show tight substrate specificity and cannot complement the LeuA and LeuC/LeuD functions, and vice versa. Finally, the range of substrate tolerance of the L-Hph-producing strain was examined, which showed that m-fluorophenylalanine, o-fluorophenylalanine, and L-tyrosine were accepted as substrates and that the corresponding homoamino acids were generated.
Although Lysobacter species are a remarkable source of natural compounds with antibacterial and antifungal activities, the ability of these bacteria to produce plant growth promoters remains practically unknown. In this work, the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) has been isolated from the secretions of Lysobacter gummosus OH17, indicating the presence of an ACC deaminase, which was shown to be encoded in the gene peg_1256. The recombinant enzyme could not only deaminate ACC to provide 2-oxobutanoic acid but also catalyzed the amination of the 2-oxobutanoic acid, demonstrating, for the first time, that ACC deaminases can produce ACC. After the treatment of rice Oryza sativa Nipponbare plants with OH17 ACC deaminase, the ethylene production levels were 44% higher in comparison with the control experiments, allowing significant improvements in root, 10%, and stem, 14%, growth.
In order to improve the productivity of specified TPPs, we have focused on the biosynthesis of branched chain fatty acids, since the chain length is the sole structural difference between the TPPs. Fortunately, the biosynthesis of branched chain fatty acids has already been elucidated in detail, 4 and the following coenzyme esters are known to be the primers involved in their biosynthesis. Coenzyme A esters of isovaleric acid, isobutyric acid and 2-methylbutyric acid could contribute to the productions of iso-fatty acid with odd number of carbon atoms, iso-fatty acids with even number of carbon atoms, and anteiso-fatty acids, respectively. These branched fatty acids can also be biosynthesized from the branched chain amino acids, namely leucine, valine and isoleucine, respectively, as shown in Figure 2 . The improved productions of other cyclic lipopeptide antibiotics with acyl side chains have previously been achieved by supplement of these amino acids or fatty acids. 5, 6, 7 Here, we report an improvement in the production ratio of TPPs by addition of the postulated precursors such as branched chain amino acids, short-chain carboxylic acids or 3-hydroxy fatty acids. Under the standard culture conditions, TPPs were produced in the ratio of TPPA (8.4%), TPPB (8.9%), TPPC (71.3%) and TPPD (11.4%). With the addition of L-leucine, a well-known precursor of branched-chain fatty acids to the culture medium, the production ratio of TPPC was increased in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in the predominant production of TPPC and diminished formation of TPPB and TPPD, as shown in Table 2 and Figure 3 . A similar result was also observed by the addition of D-leucine, as shown in Table 2 . A maximum ratio of TPPC (92%) was achieved by adding 1.25-10 mg/ml L-leucine. Under the addition of L-leucine, neither growth inhibition nor enhancement of total amount of TPPs productivity was observed. On the other hand, the addition of L-or D-valine to the culture medium did not significantly affect TPP production, as shown in Table 2 . At high concentrations of L-valine and especially Dvaline, the productivity of TPPs was decreased, resulting in growth inhibition. Next, we examined effect of the addition of postulated precursors such as 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxo-pentanoic acid and isovaleric acid on TPP production ( Figure 2 ).
These results indicate that the transaminases of the producing organisms act specifically on leucine, but not on valine, to produce α-keto acids. This also suggests that 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, a precursor of iso type, even carbon fatty acids could be derived from amino acids other than valine by an alternative metabolic pathway. Next, we examined effect of the addition of an unusual amino acid, L-homoleucine, which was expected to increase TPPB and TPPD production. However, as shown in Table 4 , Lhomoleucine had no effect on the production of TPPs. It may be explained that L-homoleuine is not recognized as a substrate for fatty acid biosynthesis by the producing organism because Lhomoleucine is not a natural amino acid. L-Homoleucine at 1 mg/ml decreased pH of culture broth and TPP production. Improvement in TPPD productivity was further examined by the addition of its constituting fatty acid, 3-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoic acid (5), and was proved successful by its increased production in a dose-dependent manner up to 0.3 mg/ml. However, this fatty acid when used at the higher doses caused growth inhibition and lowering of TPP production. The maximum production of TPPD was achieved to 2.2 fold by the addition of the fatty acid at 0.15-0.3 mg/ml (Figure 4) . Next, we examined the effect of the stereoisomers of 3-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoicacids, 3(R)-isomer 9 and 3(S)-isomer 11, on TPPD production and found that 3(R)-isomer 9 was preferentially incorporated into TPPD to yield 28 µg/ml, but on the contrary, the addition of 3(S)-isomer 11 has only slight effect on TPPD formation as shown in figure 5 . These results suggest that 3(S)-isomer 11 can be incorporated into TPPs only after enzymatic isomerization, which are easily understandable because natural TPPD has 3(R)-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoic acid. 3 The fatty acids were synthesized as outlined in Schemes 1 and 2. 
A majority of tumor cell lines are considered to be methionine-dependent because of their inability to grow in culture when methionine is replaced by its precursor, homocysteine. We have previously shown that this phenotype is not due to the incapacity to synthesize methionine from homocysteine but rather to a deficiency in the methionine salvage pathway, including 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), which is transaminated into methionine. At low concentrations MTOB can restore normal growth of methionine-dependent cell lines in the absence of methionine. However, when MTOB concentrations are increased the cells undergo apoptosis. Methional, a metabolite of MTOB produced by the branched-chain oxo acid dehydrogenase complex, is a potent inducer of apoptosis in a murine lymphoid cell line. We suggest that the methionine-dependent phenotype is associated with a reduced content of methional, which behaves as a proapoptotic agent. For this reason, methionine-dependent cells have a relative survival advantage.
This thesis describes the use of enzymes in organic synthesis and their application to produce optically active compounds, either by enantiospecific or enantioselective reactions. ::: ::: Chapter two describes the enantioselective synthesis of a β-blocker, Betaxalol. Initial experiments to enantioselectively epoxidise a pro-chiral alkene precursor failed. However, methane monooxygenase (ex Methylococcus capsulatus (Bath)) epoxidised allyl bromide and allyl chloride, the allyl chloride produced was racemic. Microbiological reduction of α-chloroketone gave optically enriched α-chloroketone. The butanoate of the α-chloroketone was enzymatically resolved. However, other undesired hydrolysis reactions were occurring. Accordingly, a compound more closely related to Betaxalol was chosen for further investigation. A screen of ten enzymes revealed that racemic 3-[4-[2-(cyclopropylmethoxy)phcnyl]-l -chloro-2-acetoxypropane was enantioselectively hydrolysed by the lipase from Pseudomonas fluorescens (E=14). Substrate modification gave the corresponding butyrate as the optimised structure (E=35). Pseudomonas fluorescens catalysed esterification of the corresponding chlorohydrin, was attempted. The best acyl donor was vinyl acetate (E>100). Both enantiomers of ::: 3- [4-[2-(cyclopropylmethoxy)phenyl]-l-chloro-2-acetoxypropane (>98%cc) were produced and converted in two steps into optically pure β-blocker. Reduction of the corresponding α-chloroketone was less successful. ::: ::: Chapter three describes the synthesis of a protected form of 4-amino-2-oxobutanoic acid. Twenty yeasts were then screened for enantiospecific reduction of the ketone. The best yeast was Saccharomyces carlsbergensis ATCC 2345, which produced ::: (2S)-methyl-4-(benzyloxycarbonyloxy)-4-ami no-2-hydroxy butanoate (88%cc). The stereochemistry was determined by subsequent chemical conversion to (3S)-3-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidine. ::: ::: Chapter four describes the yeast reduction of 4-(phenylthio)butan-2-onc and related ketones. Both (2R) and (2S), 4-(phenylthio)butan-2-ol (>98%ee) were produced by screening 68 yeast strains. Attempts to scale-up the yeast reduction arc described. ::: ::: Chapter five describes the stereospccific hydrolysis of cis-3,6-diacetoxycyclohexene. 23 hydrolytic enzymes were screened. The Lipase P-30 (Pseudomonas sp.) produced ::: (+)-(3S,6R)-3-hydroxy-6-acetoxycyclohcxcne in 64% yield, 79%ec. The absolute stereochemistry was established by subsequent chemical conversion to (+)-(lS,6R)-7-oxabicyclo[4,3,0]non-2-cn-8-one. ::: ::: Chapter six describes approaches to optically pure aziridine-2-carboxylates. Direct resolution of ethyl 3-phcnyl-lH-aziridine-2-carboxylate was attempted. The cis racemic pair was hydrolysed. The trans racemic pair could not be hydrolysed (9 enzymes screened). Resolution of ethyl 3-mcthyl-3-azido-2- acetoxybutanoate was more successfully. From a screen of 9 enzymes the lipase from Candida cylindracea was selected (E>100). Racemic ethyl 3-mcthyl-3-azido-2-hydroxybutanoatc was converted to ethyl 3,3,dimethyl-l H-aziridine-2-carboxylate.
SummaryThe inhibition of D-Amino Acid Oxidase by α-Keto Acid, product of the reaction with D-Amino Acid is described for the first time. Inhibition of the enzyme by α-Keto-γ-Methiolbutyric Acid (4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid), product of the reaction with D-Methionine, was studied. From the results obtained it is deduced that inhibition is competitive with the substrate, the value of the inhibition constant being 1.85 10−3 M.
We have previously shown that methional, CH3SCH2CH2CHO, an endogeneous cellular aldehyderived by the oxidative decarboxylation of 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (B), an intermediate in the methionine salvage pathway is a potent inducer of apoptosis when added to cultures of mouse lymphoid cells BAF3 bo (Quash et al., 1995). MTOB a00 μM was also capable of alleviating the methionine dependence shown by transfed cells (Ogier et al., 1993) because of its ready transamination to methionine, with gamine as amine donor (Backlund et al., 1982). Further, the inhibition of this MTOB transaminase with novel transition state inhibitors such as methionine-ethyl ester- pyridoxal induced apoptosis in BAF3 bo cells but not in BAF3 bcl2 which had been trans- fected with the human bcl2 gene (Roch et al., 1996). When the reasons for this refractory behaviour of BAF3 bcl2 were investigated using[14C] MTOB it was found that the production of [14methional from [14C] MTOB was reduced by 50% in BAF3 bcl2 and that even the direct addition of 600μM methional could not induce apoptosis in BAF3 bcl2 (Roch and al, 19 Methional is itself further metabolised intracellularly [Figure 1] by 3 pathways: reduction by aldehyde reductase (ALR) to methionol, oxidation by aldehyde dehydro- genaseLDH1) to methyl thiopropionic acid and β-hydroxylation to malondialdehyde. We therefore tried to see whether the inhibition of the reductase or the dehydrogenase would uce apoptosis in methional treated BAF3 bcl2 cells. Using quercitin as an inhibitor of ALR increase in apotosis was observed in BAF3 bcl2, but this result is to be interpreted with caution as quercitin also induces DNA strand breaks directly.With disulfiram as an ibitor of ALDH a small increase was seen but experimentation could be carried out only with low concentrations (< 100μM) due to the intrinsic toxicity of this compound. It was therefore clear that more specific inhibitors of ALDH were required to try to determine if ALDH played a role in the resistance to the apoptosis-inducing activity of methio.
The thiamin diphosphate (ThDP) dependent branched-chain keto acid decarboxylase (KdcA) from Lactococcus lactis catalyzes the decarboxylation of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid to 3-methylpropanal (isobutyraldehyde) and CO2. The enzyme is also able to catalyze carboligation reactions with an exceptionally broad substrate range, a feature that makes KdcA a potentially valuable biocatalyst for C-C bond formation, in particular for the enzymatic synthesis of diversely substituted 2-hydroxyketones with high enantioselectivity. The crystal structures of recombinant holo-KdcA and of a complex with an inhibitory ThDP analogue mimicking a reaction intermediate have been determined to resolutions of 1.6 and 1.8 A, respectively. KdcA shows the fold and cofactor-protein interactions typical of thiamin-dependent enzymes. In contrast to the tetrameric assembly displayed by most other ThDP-dependent decarboxylases of known structure, KdcA is a homodimer. The crystal structures provide insights into the structural basis of substrate selectivity and stereoselectivity of the enzyme and thus are suitable as a framework for the redesign of the substrate profile in carboligation reactions.
Esters of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid are reduced with bakers' yeast by three methods: free bakers' yeast in water, immobilized bakers' yeast in water, and immobilized bakers' yeast in hexane. Although (R)-hydroxy esters are obtained in all cases, the enantiomeric excess varies from 3% (reduction of the methyl ester with free bakers' yeast in water) to 93% (reduction of the butyl ester with immobilized bakers' yeast in hexane) depending on the structure of substrate and on the reaction conditions. The mechanism of the present stereochemical control is discussed.
