Activation of endothelial cells (EC) by inflammatory substances results in stimuli-specific induction of proteins that participate in EC-leukocyte interactions and leukocyte recruitment to inflammatory foci [1] . We have previously reported that arginine methylation of transcription factors catalyzed by PRMT5 potentiates expression of the leukocyte adhesion molecules VCAM1 and E-selectin, and the chemokines CXCL10 and CX3CL1 in response to TNF [2, 3] . PRMT5 is a member of the protein arginine methyltransferase (PRMT) family and catalyzes the covalent addition of methyl groups to the two terminal nitrogen atoms of protein-incorporated arginine. Type I and II arginine methyltransferases can add a single methyl group to arginine, producing monomethylarginine (MMA). Type I PRMT add a second methyl group to the same nitrogen atom to produce di-ω-N,N-dimethylarginine (asymmetric dimethylarginine, ADMA). In contrast, type II PRMT are capable of adding a second methyl group to the opposite terminal nitrogen atom of arginine, producing a product with methyl adducts on both terminal nitrogen residues (di-ω-N,N'-dimethylarginine; symmetrical dimethylarginine, SDMA) [4] [5] [6] . MMA, SDMA, or ADMA at a particular site may result in opposing transcriptional outcomes depending on cellular context [7, 8] . The presence of ADMA or SDMA is therefore not definitively predictive of transcriptional activity. PRMT5 is at type II enzyme is the primary enzyme responsible for formation of SDMA in mammals [9, 10] . Addition of a methyl group to the arginine side chain increases steric bulk and hydrophobicity, and eliminates potential hydrogen bond donors, but does not alter arginine's positive charge [9, 11, 12] . These chemical changes imparted by PRMT5 function to enhance or impede protein-substrate interactions by modulating interaction surfaces [6, 8, [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] .
It is recognized that monoamine reuptake inhibitors (MARIs) exert beneficial effects in the treatment of major depression and general anxiety disorder. The aim of this study was to identify proteins regulated by this class of antidepressant using a proteome differential profiling approach. Either venlafaxine or fluoxetine was administered systemically to adult rats for 2 weeks, and protein patterns from rat hippocampal cytosolic extracts were compared by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Silver-stained protein spots displaying differential expression were identified by mass spectrometry. Thirty-three protein spots were modulated by both drug treatments compared to controls. The classification of several proteins that were sorted by function suggested convergent pathway activities for both MARIs at the post-receptor level. These included proteins associated with neurogenesis (insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), glia maturation factor [GMF]-β), outgrowth/maintenance of neuronal processes (hippocampal cholinergic neurostimulating peptide [HCNP], PCTAIRE-3), and with neural regeneration/axonal guidance collapsin response mediator protein (CRMP-2) systems. Other modulated proteins indicated an increase in neuronal vesicular cell trafficking and synaptic plasticity (Ras-related protein 4a (Rab4a), Ras-related protein 1b (Rab1b), heat shock protein 10 [HSP10]), as well as neurosteroidogenic (hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase A) and possible anti-apoptotic (dimethylargininase-1 L-N,N-dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase-1 [DDAH-1], pyruvate dehydrogenase-E1 [PDH-E1], antioxidant protein-2 [AOP-2]) pathway-mediated regulatory events. Parallel studies to investigate further the effects of venlafaxine and fluoxetine on adult hippocampal neurogenesis in vivo by quantitative bromodeoxyuridine immunolabeling revealed a significant drug-induced increase in the proliferation rate and long-term survivability of progenitor stem cells located in the subgranular zone. These data suggest that MARIs share wide-ranging proteome changes within the hippocampal formation, beyond 5-HT/NE neurotransmission. This may reflect long-term functional adaptations required for antidepressant activity. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Renal parenchymal disease is the most common cause of secondary hypertension, accounting for 2.5% to 5.0% of all cases. Hypertension associated with renal parenchymal disease occurs as a complication of a wide variety of glomerular and interstitial renal diseases and may accelerate the decline in renal function if inadequately controlled. Renal parenchymal hypertension most probably represents the combined interactions of multiple independent mechanisms: potential factors include impaired sodium handling leading to volume expansion, perturbations of the renin-angiotensin system, alterations in endogenous vasodepressor compounds, and possibly increased activity of vasoactive substances. The past several years have witnessed newer insights into both the pathophysiology and the therapeutics of this disorder. The characterization of endothelin and the nitric oxide (NO)-arginine pathway and their roles in biology and medicine has provided additional new insights with regard to the pathogenesis of hypertension in renal parenchymal disease. For example, methylated L-arginine derivatives that possess NO synthase inhibitor capabilities including NG-N-dimethylarginine and N-monomethyl-L-arginine are found in human plasma and in urine. Patients with chronic uremia have impaired elimination of these compounds, and circulating concentrations of these compounds may increase sufficiently to result in inhibition of NO production. Thus, accumulation of endogenous NO synthase inhibitors might contribute to the hypertension of advanced renal failure. Similarly, it has been proposed that increased endothelium-derived endothelin that results from hypertensive injury to vascular endothelium could lead to further vasoconstriction and worsening of hypertension. Additional insight into this fascinating problem must await further biochemical characterization of some of the mediators and a more precise delineation of their pathophysiological role.
In eukaryotic cells, genes are complexed with core histones and other chromosomal proteins to form the chromatin. The basic unit of chromatin is the nucleosome, a nucleoprotein particle that consists of 147 base pairs of DNA wrapped around a core of histones (H2A, H2B, H3, and H4). The histone lysineand arginine-rich N-terminal tails protrude out of the histone core and are the sites of many types of post-translational modifications such as acetylation, methylation, and phosphorylation. The post-translational modification of histone tails regulates the level of chromatin condensation, and is in turn important for gene transcription. Histone acetylation is one of the best understood histone modifications. The highly regulated activities of histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs) are responsible for the control of specific acetylation levels. Indeed, actively transcribed regions of chromatin (euchromatin) are hyperacetylated in comparison with condensed regions (heterochromatin), which are not accessible to transcription factors. In this scenario, small molecule inhibitors of HDACs can affect the heritable changes in gene expression of specific genes, and are used as drugs for cancer therapy. Histone methylation has also been shown to be important in establishing stable gene-expression patterns. Histone methylation does not alter the overall charge of the histone tails, but has an influence on basicity, hydrophobicity, and on the affinity for anionic molecules such as DNA. Histone tails can be mono-, di-, and trimethylated on the e-amino group of lysine residues, and either monoor dimethylated on arginine residues. Depending on the context, lysine methylation provides either activating or repressing modification. Thus, trimethylation of Lys9 in histone H3 is associated primarily with transcriptional silencing, whereas Lys4 methylation correlates with transcriptional activation. Moreover, aberrant histone methylation has been linked to a number of human diseases such as cancer. Protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) are grouped into two major classes, type I enzymes catalyzing the formation of asymmetric w-N,N-dimethylarginine tails, and type II enzymes catalyzing the formation of symmetric w-N,N-dimethylarginine tails. To date, no mutations have been identified in PRMTs in tumour cells. However, the coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase (CARM1/PRMT4) is over-expressed in both grade-3 breast tumours and in hormone-dependent prostate tumours. In addition to their role in histone modification, PRMTs target several proteins involved in cell proliferation, signal transduction, mRNA splicing, RNA transport, and protein–protein interactions. PRMT1 regulates the nuclear cytoplasmic shuttling of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonuleoprotein (hnRNP) Npl3p, and methylates Arg3 in H4 facilitating acetylation of H4 by the HAT p300, which leads to transcriptional activation. CARM1 binds the p160 family of nuclear hormone receptor coactivators, and enhances the nuclear receptor-mediated transcription activation through methylation of H3. Whereas studies on PRMTs are in their infancy, it is likely that they hold crucial roles in chromatin remodelling with regulation of gene expression and cellular processes. As such, PRMTs are likely to provide useful targets in the design of new anticancer agents. In 2004, a series of dyes and dye-like compounds were evaluated as small molecule modulators of PRMT and histone lysine methyltransferase (HKMT) activity. In this screen, AMI-1 was described as the first specific PRMT inhibitor, and AMI-5 was one of the most potent, though less selective, compounds (Figure 1). Recently, the fungal metabolite chaetocin was identified and characterized as the first specific inhibitor of the HKMT SU ACHTUNGTRENNUNG(VAR)3-9 (Figure 1). As a part of our medicinal chemistry project aimed at discovering new entities as small molecule modulators of epigenetic targets, we chose the AMI-5 chemical structure as a template and designed a new series of simplified analogues starting from a pharmacophore hypothesis. In this hypothesis, we identified the presence of two o-bromoor o,o-dibromophenol moieties as crucial for having antimethyltransferase activity, and inserted a hydrophobic spacer between the above fragments. In particular, we prepared a series of substituted 1,5-diphenyl-1,4-pentadien-3-ones 1–12 (Figure 2), in which some of them share two or more bro[a] Prof. A. Mai, Dr. S. Valente, Dr. A. Perrone, Dr. R. Ragno, Dr. S. Simeoni Istituto Pasteur-Fondazione Cenci Bolognetti, Dipartimento di Studi Farmaceutici Universit$ degli Studi di Roma “La Sapienza”, P.le A. Moro 5, 00185 Roma (Italy) Fax: (+39)06-491491 E-mail : antonello.mai@uniroma1.it [b] Dr. D. Cheng, Prof. M. T. Bedford University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Science Park-Research Division, Smithville, Texas 78957 (USA) Fax: (+1)512-237-2475 E-mail : mtbedford@mdanderson.org [c] Prof. G. Sbardella Dipartimento di Scienze Farmaceutiche, Universit$ degli Studi di Salerno, via Ponte Don Melillo, 84084 Fisciano (SA) (Italy) [d] Prof. G. Brosch Division of Molecular Biology, Biocenter, Innsbruck Medical University, FritzPreglstrasse 3, 6020 Innsbruck (Austria) [e] Dr. A. Nebbioso, Dr. M. Conte, Prof. L. Altucci Dipartimento di Patologia Generale, Seconda Universit$ degli Studi di Napoli, vico L. De Crecchio 7, 80138 Napoli (Italy) Fax: (+39)081-450-169 E-mail : lucia.altucci@unina2.it Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under http://www.chemmedchem.org or from the author. Supporting information includes experimental procedures, characterization data for compounds 1–14, molecular modelling investigation, and further biological data on U937 cell line.
We report isolation and structure elucidation of AsLn5, AsLn7, AsLn11 and AsLn12: novel luciferin analogs from the bioluminescent earthworm Fridericia heliota. They were found to be highly unusual modified peptides, comprising either of the two tyrosine-derived chromophores, CompX or CompY and a set of amino acids, including threonine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, homoarginine, and unsymmetrical N,N-dimethylarginine. These natural compounds represent a unique peptide chemistry found in terrestrial animals and rise novel questions concerning their biosynthetic origin.
The present invention relates to a mutant protein comprising at least a fragment of a mutant dimethylarginine dimethylamino hydrolase (DDAH) enzyme, wherein the fragment is asymmetric N, N-dimethylarginine (ADMA) and / or L, N- It has an affinity for monomethyl arginine (LNMMA) (which is present in lower plasma levels than ADMA), and hydrolysis of ADMA or LNMMA citrulline, missing release, or both of citrulline.
Bioluminescence, the ability of a living organism to produce light through a chemical reaction, is one of Nature's most amazing phenomena widely spread among marine and terrestrial species. There are various different mechanisms underlying the emission of "cold light", but all involve a small molecule, luciferin, that provides energy for light-generation upon oxidation, and a protein, luciferase, that catalyzes the reaction. Different species often use different proteins and substrates in the process, which suggests that the ability to produce light evolved independently several times throughout evolution. Currently, it is estimated that there are more than 30 different mechanisms of bioluminescence. Even though the chemical foundation underlying the bioluminescence phenomenon is by now generally understood, only a handful of luciferins have been isolated and characterized. Today, the known bioluminescence reactions are used as indispensable analytical tools in various fields of science and technology. A pressing need for new bioluminescent analytical techniques with a wider range of practical applications stimulates the search and chemical studies of new bioluminescent systems. In the past few years two such systems were unraveled: those of the earthworms Fridericia heliota and the higher fungi. The luciferins of these two systems do not share structural similarity with the previously known ones. This Account will survey structure elucidation of the novel luciferins and identification of their mechanisms of action. Fridericia luciferin is a key component of a novel ATP-dependent bioluminescence system. Structural studies were performed on 0.005 mg of natural substance and revealed its unusual extensively modified peptidic nature. Elucidation of Fridericia oxyluciferin revealed that oxidative decarboxylation of a lysine fragment of luciferin supplies energy for light generation, while a fluorescent CompX moiety remains intact and serves as a light emitter. Along with luciferin, a number of its natural analogs were found in the extracts of worm biomass. They occurred to be highly unusual modified peptides comprising a set of amino acids, including threonine, aminobutyric acid, homoarginine, unsymmetrical N,N-dimethylarginine and extensively modified tyrosine. These natural compounds represent a unique peptide chemistry found in terrestrial animals and raise novel questions concerning their biosynthetic origin. Also in this Account we discuss identification of the luciferin of higher fungi 3-hydroxyhispidin which is biosynthesized by oxidation of the precursor hispidin, a known fungal and plant secondary metabolite. Furthermore, it was shown that 3-hydroxyhispidin leads to bioluminescence in extracts from four diverse genera of luminous fungi, thus suggesting a common biochemical mechanism for fungal bioluminescence.
Abstract 1. Eight different substances were isolated in crystalline forms by ion exchange chromatography of the aliphatic basic amino acid fraction of human urine. 2. Structures of guanidino-N,N-dimethylarginine and guanidino-N,N'-dimethylarginine were assigned for two substances by analyses of the degradation products, elemental compositions, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra. The identities of the compounds were confirmed by synthesis followed by comparison of infrared and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra and of chromatographic properties with those of the isolated compounds. The concentrations of these two compounds in human urine are higher than that of arginine. Their natural occurrence has not been reported previously. 3. Three compounds, Ne-methyl-, Ne,Ne-dimethyl-, and Ne,Ne,Ne-trimethyllysine, were identified by elementary analyses and syntheses. Occurrence of the last two compounds in free state in nature has not been reported previously. 4. Two compounds, glucosylgalactosyl- and galactosyl-δ-hydroxylysine, whose occurrence in human urine has been reported previously, were isolated as crystals for the first time. 5. The concentrations of these N-methyl derivatives of lysine and arginine in the urine were not changed by oral loading of either lysine or arginine. Protein-free diet did not affect the amounts of these compounds in urine. The possibility that these compounds are derived from tissue proteins in which lysine and arginine residues are methylated was discussed.
