It is possible that metal-organic complexation enhances the uptake of gaseous organic compounds and the solubility of metals in aerosols and atmospheric water. We investigated potential atmospheric organic ligands and the enhanced uptake of hydroxy-, oxo-, and dicarboxylic acids as well as dicarbonyls into atmospheric aqueous aerosol. We examined complexation with transition metals (iron, manganese, nickel, copper, zinc) and lead on the basis of available references and our experimental data. Humic-like substances are most likely ligands in the atmosphere, although this is a poorly characterized material. A number of polycarboxylic acids and hydroxy forms (e.g., citric and tartronic acids) effectively complex metals such as copper in atmospheric aerosols. The simple equilibrium model calculations show that the effect of the complexation on the gas-aqueous phase partition of gaseous atmospheric ligands is quite small for the ligands with the high physical Henry's law constants, e.g., dicarboxylic acids represented by oxalic acid, even if they have high affinity with metal ions. The lower Henry's law constants of the alpha-dicarbonyls, such as glyoxal and methylglyoxal, mean that the complexation could lead to profound increases in their partition into the aqueous phase. Despite quantum mechanical arguments for copper-glyoxal complexes, experiments showed no evidence of complexation between either hydrated or unhydrated alpha-dicarbonyls and the cupric ion. By contrast the beta-dicarbonyl, malondialdehyde, has properties that would allow it to partition into atmospheric water via the complexation with metal ions under some conditions.
Aims Heavy alcohol intake depletes the plasma vitamins due to hepatotoxicity and decreased intestinal absorption. However, moderate alcohol intake is often thought to be healthy. Therefore, effects of chronic moderate alcohol intake on liver and intestine were studied using urinary vitamin levels. Furthermore, effects of Tinospora cordifolia water extract (TCE) (hepatoprotective) on vitamin excretion and intestinal absorption were also studied. ::: ::: Methods In the study, asymptomatic moderate alcoholics ( n = 12) without chronic liver disease and healthy volunteers ( n = 14) of mean age 39 ± 2.2 (mean ± SD) were selected and divided into three groups. TCE treatment was performed for 14 days. The blood and urine samples were collected on Day 0 and 14 after treatment with TCE and analyzed. ::: ::: Results In alcoholics samples, a significant increase in the levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, Triglyceride, Cholesterol, HDL and LDL ( P < 0.05) was observed but their level get downregulated after TCE intervention. Multivariate analysis of metabolites without missing values showed an increased excretion of 7-dehydrocholesterol, orotic acid, pyridoxine, lipoamide and niacin and TCE intervention depleted their levels ( P < 0.05). In contrast, excretion of biotin, xanthine, vitamin D2 and 2- O - p -coumaroyltartronic acid (CA, an internal marker of intestinal absorption) were observed to be decreased in alcoholic samples; however, TCE intervention restored the CA and biotin levels. Vitamin metabolism biomarkers, i.e. homocysteine and xanthurenic acid, were also normalized after TCE intervention. ::: ::: Conclusion Overall data depict that moderate alcohol intake is also hepatotoxic and decreases intestinal absorption. However, TCE treatment effectively increased the intestinal absorption and retaining power of liver that regulated alcohol-induced multivitamin deficiency.
It is possible that metal-organic complexation enhances the uptake of gaseous organic compounds and the solubility of metals in aerosols and atmospheric water. We investigated potential atmospheric organic ligands and the enhanced uptake of hydroxy-, oxo-, and dicarboxylic acids as well as dicarbonyls into atmospheric aqueous aerosol. We examined complexation with transition metals (iron, manganese, nickel, copper, zinc) and lead on the basis of available references and our experimental data. Humic-like substances are most likely ligands in the atmosphere, although this is a poorly characterized material. A number of polycarboxylic acids and hydroxy forms (e.g., citric and tartronic acids) effectively complex metals such as copper in atmospheric aerosols. The simple equilibrium model calculations show that the effect of the complexation on the gas-aqueous phase partition of gaseous atmospheric ligands is quite small for the ligands with the high physical Henry's law constants, e.g., dicarboxylic acids represented by oxalic acid, even if they have high affinity with metal ions. The lower Henry's law constants of the α-dicarbonyls, such as glyoxal and methylglyoxal, mean that the complexation could lead to profound increases in their partition into the aqueous phase. Despite quantum mechanical arguments for copper-glyoxal complexes, experiments showed no evidence of complexation between either hydrated or unhydrated α-dicarbonyls and the cupric ion. By contrast the β-dicarbonyl, malondialdehyde, has properties that would allow it to partition into atmospheric water via the complexation with metal ions under some conditions.
Aims: Heavy alcohol intake depletes the plasma vitamins due to hepatotoxicity and decreased intestinal absorption. However, moderate alcohol intake is often thought to be healthy. Therefore, effects of chronic moderate alcohol intake on liver and intestine were studied using urinary vitamin levels. Furthermore, effects of Tinospora cordifolia water extract (TCE) (hepatoprotective) on vitamin excretion and intestinal absorption were also studied. Methods: In the study, asymptomatic moderate alcoholics (n = 12) without chronic liver disease and healthy volunteers (n = 14) of mean age 39 ± 2.2 (mean ± SD) were selected and divided into three groups. TCE treatment was performed for 14 days. The blood and urine samples were collected on Day 0 and 14 after treatment with TCE and analyzed. Results: In alcoholics samples, a significant increase in the levels of gamma-glutamyl transferase, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, Triglyceride, Cholesterol, HDL and LDL (P < 0.05) was observed but their level get downregulated after TCE intervention. Multivariate analysis of metabolites without missing values showed an increased excretion of 7-dehydrocholesterol, orotic acid, pyridoxine, lipoamide and niacin and TCE intervention depleted their levels (P < 0.05). In contrast, excretion of biotin, xanthine, vitamin D2 and 2-O-p-coumaroyltartronic acid (CA, an internal marker of intestinal absorption) were observed to be decreased in alcoholic samples; however, TCE intervention restored the CA and biotin levels. Vitamin metabolism biomarkers, i.e. homocysteine and xanthurenic acid, were also normalized after TCE intervention. Conclusion: Overall data depict that moderate alcohol intake is also hepatotoxic and decreases intestinal absorption. However, TCE treatment effectively increased the intestinal absorption and retaining power of liver that regulated alcohol-induced multivitamin deficiency.
The chromatographic performance of the Dionex IonPac ICE-AS6 ion exclusion column is investigated. Therefore, capacity factors, efficiency, peak symmetry, resolution, and selectivity are determined for various mono- and polyfunctional aliphatic carboxylic acids under selected chromatographic conditions. Except for the stronger acids (pKa1 < 3.75), the highest chromatographic efficiency is achieved at a column temperature of 40 or 50 degrees C, and peak shape is found to be optimal at approximately 60 degrees C. The separation of the stronger acids is favored by an eluent pH below 3.0 and column temperatures below 40 degrees C. The maximal effective plate numbers range between 126 (tartronic acid) and 6380 (4-oxovaleric acid). Hydroxy-substituted acids are less retained and less influenced by temperature changes than the unsubstituted compounds. It is estimated that size exclusion effects take part in the separation of aldonic acids. The addition of 1% isopropanol to the acidic eluent increases the chromatographic efficiency generally, whereas higher concentrations reduce the retention of several acids drastically.
Abstract Catalytic transformation of glycerol to value-added products has attracted the attention of scientists all over the world. Among various transformations, selective oxidation of glycerol with molecular oxygen to dihydroxyacetone, glyceric acid, glyceraldehydes, and tartronic acid is challenging both from the viewpoint of academic research and industrial application. Herein, we review the recent progresses in the selective oxidation of glycerol under base-free conditions. Those catalysts widely reported for the selective oxidation of the terminal hydroxyl and secondary hydroxyl groups in glycerol, such as monometallic Au, Pt, and Pd NPs, and bimetallic Au-Pt, Au-Pd, Pt-Bi, Pt-Sb, and Pt-Cu, were compared and discussed in detail. The reaction mechanism over Pt-based catalysts, possible catalyst deactivation, and the corresponding improvements are presented. Further, the recent progresses in the continuous oxidation of glycerol in fixed bed reactors and its excellent selectivity in the formation of dihydroxyacetone are highlighted.
Abstract A new method for the microdetermination of acetoin and tartronic acid was described. This was done by an oxidation-reduction reaction. Oxidation of acetoin and tartronic acid were effected by means of an excess of Cu(III) solution on heating, the remaining excess of Cu(III) was titrated back by acidifying and adding a known excess of arseneous oxide solution against a standard iodine solution with the use of starch as an indicator.
Abstract A CoA-thioester dependent transferase, hydroxycinnamoyl-CoA: tartronate hydroxycinnamoyltransferase, involved in the formation of hydroxycinnamoyltartronic acids, was extracted from young plants of mung bean and some of its properties determined. Occurrence and development of the transferase in different organs of the young plant correlated well with the accumulation patterns of the hydroxycinnamoyltartronates.
Abstract Glycerol was oxidized catalytically under aerobic conditions in the presence of monometallic nanoclusters of gold on poly(1-vinylpyrrolidin-2-one) (PVP) to give hydroxymalonic acid (tartronic acid) as the major product, together with 2,3-dihydroxypropanoic acid (glyceric acid) and hydroxyacetic acid (glycolic acid) as minor products. In contrast, oxalic acid was selectively obtained when bimetallic Au–Pd:PVP nanoclusters were used as the catalyst.
Glycerol valorization through partial oxidation is a good way for obtaining many different molecules with high added value such as glyceric acid, tartronic acid, dihydroxyacetone, etc. Among the potential products, glyceraldehyde is an interesting chemical compound for its various applications in different domains such as organic chemistry, medical and cosmetic industries. In the present paper, we studied the effect of different supports on the glycerol oxidation reaction in a batch reactor applying base-free conditions. The tested catalysts were Pt-based materials deposited on various supports (i.e., SiO2, TiO2, ZSM-5, -Al2O3), which were synthesized using a deposition method followed by a chemical reduction. The catalysts were extensively characterized (BET, ICP, XRD, TEM, XPS) highlighting differences in terms of specific surface areas, textural properties and Pt nanoparticles sizes. We evidenced a direct relation between glycerol conversion and glyceraldehyde selectivity (i.e., increase glycerol conversion leads to a decrease in glyceraldehyde selectivity). The Pt/-Al2O3 catalysts exhibited the highest activity, but their selectivity to glyceraldehyde significantly decreased with time on stream. Pt/SiO2 presented the highest selectivity to glyceraldehyde owing to a slower reaction rate, which allows envisioning technical opportunities to continuously extract the formed glyceraldehyde from the mixture.
Tartronic acid (TA) is a high value-added chemical widely used as a pharmaceutical product and a preservative; however, its synthesis technology is complicated and high cost. In this study, aqueous solutions of lactic acid were photochemically converted into TA via green oxidation by using hydrogen peroxide (H2O2).
Acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS) and related enzymes catalyze the production of chiral compounds [(S)-acetolactate, (S)-acetohydroxybutyrate, or (R)-phenylacetylcarbinol] from achiral substrates (pyruvate, 2-ketobutyrate, or benzaldehyde). The common methods for the determination of AHAS activity have shortcomings. The colorimetric method for detection of acyloins formed from the products is tedious and does not allow time-resolved measurements. The continuous assay for consumption of pyruvate based on its absorbance at 333 nm, though convenient, is limited by the extremely small extinction coefficient of pyruvate, which results in a low signal-to-noise ratio and sensitivity to interfering absorbing compounds. Here, we report the use of circular dichroism spectroscopy for monitoring AHAS activity. This method, which exploits the optical activity of reaction products, displays a high signal-to-noise ratio and is easy to perform both in time-resolved and in commercial modes. In addition to AHAS, we examined the determination of activity of glyoxylate carboligase. This enzyme catalyzes the condensation of two molecules of glyoxylate to chiral tartronic acid semialdehyde. The use of circular dichroism also identifies the product of glyoxylate carboligase as being in the (R) configuration.
The effect of oxygen on the Ce4+−malonic acid reaction was studied in a semibatch reactor. That effect is important for the Belousov−Zhabotinsky (BZ) chemical oscillator. The Ce4+ reagent inflow and consequently the rate of the reaction itself was controlled by a peristaltic pump. The reaction products were analyzed by HPLC. With this technique two major oxidation pathways were identified. One is significant at high Ce4+ inflow rates only; the product of this channel is tartronic acid. The other pathway leading to oxalic acid is active at all flow rates but dominant when the feed is slow. A great part of oxalic acid is oxidized further to carbon dioxide and water. A reaction mechanism compatible with these findings is presented. A key step of this mechanism is the fate of the peroxymalonyl radical which is the first intermediate for both channels. It is proposed that at high Ce4+ concentrations a fast reaction of this intermediate with Ce4+ leads to tartronic acid. At low Ce4+ concentrations, however, the...
Scoping experiments have been performed which show that potassium tetraphenylboron (KTPB) is rapidly oxidized by permanganate in acidic solutions at room temperature. The main Products are CO{sub 2}, highly oxidized organic compounds related to tartaric and tartronic acids, boric acid, and potassium phosphate (when phosphoric acid is used as the source of acid). One liter of 0.6M NaMnO{sub 4}/2.5M H{sub 3}PO{sub 4} solution will destroy up to 8 grams of KTPB. The residual benzene concentration has been measured to be less than the RCRA limit of 0.5 ppm. Approximately 30% of the organic material is released as CO{sub 2} (trace CO) and 0.16% as benzene vapor. The reaction is well behaved, no foaming or spattering. Tests were performed from .15M to near 1M permanganate. The phosphoric acid concentration was maintained at a concentration at least three times that of the permanganate since an excess of acid was desired and this is the ratio that these two reagents are consumed in the oxidation.
Topical preparations containing α-hydroxy acids and closely related compounds were found to exert profound effects on epidermal keratinization in ichthyosis. Therapeutically efficacious compounds include citric acid, ethyl pyruvate, glycolic acid, glucuronic acid, 3-hydroxybutyric acid, 2-hydroxyisobutyric acid, lactic acid, malic acid, methyl pyruvate, pyruvic acid, tartaric acid, and tartronic acid. These materials appear to influence the process of keratinization per se, but do not seem to be keratolytic.
Under the conditions of the benzilic acid rearrangement, α,β-diketobutyryl-di-phenylamide (Ia) and -N-methylanilide (Ib) are transformed into tartronic acid derivatives (VI), which decarboxylate to lactamides VII. It is proved by 14-labelling of Ia, that the reaction takes place by carbonamide group migration. ::: ::: ::: ::: The reaction was followed kinetically by polarography at a fixed potential; at low pH the velocity is proportional to [OH⊖], at higher pH it becomes independent of [OH⊖], which is explained by complete transformation of I into its hydrate-anion. The equilibrium between I and its hydrate was measured by UV.-spectroscopy.
Throughout the last decade, the production of biodiesel via the triglyceride transesterification process has increased substantially. Biodiesel production via this process is associated with glycerol production (about 0.1 tonne of glycerol per tonne of biodiesel). The European Union is aiming for a 10% substitution of biofuels in the transportation sector by the end of 2020 which requires 17.4 million tonnes of biodiesel production per year and hence may produce 1.74 million tonnes of glycerol as a by-product. 1 To increase the economic viability of biodiesel production, the development of new glycerol outlets in the form of value added products is of high importance. A large number of glycerol related publications and reviews on potential high value components from glycerol have appeared over the last five years. [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] Oxidation of glycerol in water using supported noble monometallic (Au or Pt) or bimetallic (Au-Pt or Au-Pd) catalysts in the presence of a base, aiming at glyceric acid as the desired product has been intensively explored by various research groups. [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] Glyceric acid is an interesting tri-functional molecule, present as a metabolite in the glycolysis cycle and a precursor in the synthesis of serine. 12 It also serves as a food supplement, anticirrhosis agent and chelating agent. 13 Most of the catalytic studies on glycerol oxidation refer to Au nanoparticles supported on carbon. Carrettin et al. have reported 100% selectivity to glyceric acid at 56% conversion in the presence of stoichiometric amounts of sodium hydroxide. 14 Only a limited number of studies have been reported on the use of Au catalysts on supports other than carbon in the aqueous phase oxidation of glycerol. Gold nanoparticles on metal oxide supports have been proven to be less active for aqueous phase glycerol oxidation compared to carbon supported catalysts. 15, 16 The activity and selectivity of the Au catalysed glycerol oxidations in water depends on the particle size of the gold nanoparticles and the pH of the reaction medium. The presence of a base is required for the abstraction of a proton from glycerol to form a glycerolate anion. 17 Generally, with a high concentration of NaOH, a high glycerol conversion and glyceric acid selectivity is observed. 14 The selectivity of the oxidation reactions is a major concern. Numerous oxygenates such as glyceraldehyde (GLA), dihydroxyacetone (DHA), glyceric acid (GLYA), tartronic acid (TART), mesoxalic acid (MOXA), glycolic acid (GLYC), formic acid (FORM), oxalic acid (OXAL) and lactic acid (LACT) may be formed, see Scheme 1 for details. 10, 18 The formation of C 2 compounds is indicative of C-C bond scission. This scission process is likely the result of the action of in situ formed hydrogen peroxide. 19 Solvent effects on the oxidation of glycerol with supported Au catalysts have not been studied in detail and to date, only one article describing the oxidation of glycerol in methanolic solution has been published by Taarning et al. Here, the oxidation of glycerol at 373 K in methanol in the presence of 10 mol% sodium methoxide using Au catalysts on inorganic supports (TiO 2 and Fe 2 O 3 ) was reported to give dimethyl mesoxalate as the major product in selectivities up to 89 and 79% over Au/Fe 2 O 3 and Au/TiO 2 , respectively. 20 The selectivity to methyl glycerate was always less than 20%. Since the waste stream from biodiesel production contains a mixture of glycerol and methanol, methanolic oxidation is an attractive methodology. 21 When oxidising glycerol in methanolic solution, the oxidation of methanol is a concern. Hayashi et al., however, have shown that when oxidizing ethylene glycol using supported gold catalysts in methanol, methanol is hardly converted due to strong adsorption of the ethylene glycol to the catalyst, preventing considerable methanol oxidation. 22 Here we report our experimental studies on the oxidation of glycerol to methyl glycerate in methanol using Au catalysts on different oxidic supports. Support effects and the role of a base on the activity and selectivity to methylglycerate have been studied and will be reported. In addition, compared to previous publications, an alternative reaction pathway explaining the formation of the product portfolio is proposed.
The coordination chemistry of tartronic acid, 1, with copper(II) has been investigated. Structures of two complexes are reported containing respectively the complex [Cu(1–2H)2Cl]3− where 1 acts as a bidentate ligand through carboxylates, and [Cu3(1–3H)3]3− where the alcohol function is deprotonated to bridge two coppers in a triangular trinuclear complex. The latter species undergoes facile oxidation leading to carbon–carbon bond formation. The magnetic and EPR properties of the trinuclear complex have been studied in detail.
Unannealed CuNiMoP electrocatalyst was found active in electrochemical oxidation of glycerol, providing over 60% conversion without optimization. Prompted by this result, the same catalyst was investigated for the thermochemical oxidation of glycerol. For the thermochemical oxidation of glycerol using the as-deposited electroless CuNiMoP catalyst, a 23 full factorial design of experiments (two level factorial experiment design with three factors) to assess the influence of temperature (A), reaction time (B) and pressure (C). The major reaction products detected by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were glyceric, hydroxypyruvic, tartronic, oxalic and formic acids. The factors found to be most significant for the production of glyceric and tartronic acids were A, B, C, AB and BC. The highest percent conversion obtained for 30-min and 60-min catalysts was 10.6% and 9.4%, respectively. The presence of lactic acid was observed only for the 60-min as-deposited electroless CuNiMoP/Al2O3 catalyst. The results suggest the feasibility of an inexpensive catalyst based on non-noble metals for the thermochemical oxidation of glycerol through the electroless deposition technique. Some differences exist between the thermochemical and electrochemical product selectivity of the CuNiMoP catalyst, and reasons are suggested for the observed differences.
Abstract Three new plant constituents were isolated from the primary leaves of Vigna radiata (= Phaseolus aureus ) and their structures elucidated and characterized with the aid of negative-ion fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry (FAB MS), 1 H NMR and UV spectroscopy, thin-layer, gas-liquid and high performance liquid chromatography. The new conjugates are ( E )- p -coumaroyl-, ( E )-caffeoyl- and ( E )-feruloyltartronic acids. Their structures were unequivocally confirmed by comparison with synthetic material. The metabolism of the new hydroxycinnamic acid conjugates in young plants of Vigna radiata is described.
Abstract: Unannealed CuNiMoP electrocatalyst was found active in electrochemical oxidation of glycerol, providing over 60% conversion without optimization. Prompted by this result, the same catalyst was investigated for the thermochemical oxidation of glycerol. For the thermochemical oxidation of glycerol using the as-deposited electroless CuNiMoP catalyst, a 2 3 full factorial design of experiments (two level factorial experiment design with three factors) to assess the influence of temperature (A), reaction time (B) and pressure (C). The major reaction products detected by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were glyceric, hydroxypyruvic, tartronic, oxalic and formic acids. The factors found to be most significant for the production of glyceric and tartronic acids were A, B, C, AB and BC. The highest percent conversion obtained for 30-min and 60-min catalysts was 10.6% and 9.4%, respectively. The presence of lactic acid was observed only for the 60-min as-deposited electroless CuNiMoP/Al 2 O 3 catalyst. The results suggest the feasibility of an inexpensive catalyst based on non-noble metals for the thermochemical oxidation of glycerol through the electroless deposition technique. Some differences exist between the thermochemical and electrochemical product selectivity of the CuNiMoP catalyst, and reasons are suggested for the observed differences.
Due to the presence of three hydroxyl groups in glycerol, its oxidation under certain specific conditions affords high-value chemicals such as glyceric acid, tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid and dihydroxyacetone. Tartronic acid is a very costly reagent (US$1564.00 per gram), as well as a high-value chemical in the pharmaceutical industry for obesity and osteoporosis treatment. It is also used as an anti-corrosive protective agent in boilers and high temperature applications and as an oxygen in H 2 O, contains 10-15% methanol as a stabilizer solution) were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Sodium citrate dihydrate (99%), gluconic acid potassium salt (99%) and potassium sodium L-tartrate tetrahydrate (ACS, 99%-102.0%) were purchased from Alfa Aesar. Degassed deionized water was used throughout the experiment.
1. The component fatty acids of the endogenous phospholipids of microsomal preparations of Mucor, when shaken at 30 degrees C, increased in both chain length and in degree of unsaturation. The net effect was the production of gamma-linolenic acid which, over 2 h, increased from 17% to 32% of total fatty acids present. No further significant changes occurred after this time. 2. The major site for desaturation/elongation reactions was at the sn-2 position of PtdIns. PtdCho and PtdEtn were not implicated. 3. Of numerous metabolites and cofactors added to the microsomes, only malate could prolong the elongation/desaturation reactions for up to 6 h. This effect was shown to be due to a membrane-associated malic enzyme [malate dehydrogenase (decarboxylating) NADP+] with the NADPH produced being used in fatty-acid desaturation. 4. Kinetic analysis of cytosolic and microsomal enzymes [both in 0.1% (mass/vol.) Chaps] could not distinguish between them. However, when the microsomal malic enzyme was dialysed to remove Chaps, it lost 90% of activity, although the cytosolic malic enzyme lost only 20% activity. 5. The structural analogue of malate, tartronic acid, which is an inhibitor of malic enzyme, also inhibited the malate-induced stimulation of fatty-acyl group desaturation and elongation in the microsomal membranes. 6. It is concluded that two distinct malic enzymes exist, one soluble and one membrane bound, with similar active sites. Both have different roles in the production of NADPH, for lipid metabolism. The former will produce NADPH for fatty-acid biosynthesis whilst the latter produces NADPH for fatty-acid desaturation.
It has been found that Gluconobacter liquefaciens metabolized 5-ketogluconic acid. In order to clarify metabolic pathways of this compound, the oxidation products by resting cells of this organism were investigated. Rubiginol, rubiginic, comenic, 2,5-diketogluconic, glycolic and tartronic acids were detected or identified in the reaction fluid. On the basis of these results and the data obtained by means of manometric experiments, the oxidation pathways of 5–ketogluconic acid were discussed.Oxidation pathways of 5-ketogluconie acid by resting cells of Gluconobacter liquefaciens were further investigated. Arsenite inhibited the oxidation of this compound. The amount of carbonyl compounds in the oxidation products of 5–ketogluconic acid was increased by addition of 10-3 m arsenite. Pyruvic and α-ketoglutaric acids were identified among these carbonyl compounds. Members of the tricarboxylic acid cycle were oxidized actively by resting cells or cell-free extracts of this organism. These results suggested the ...
The electro-oxidation of glycerol on Au and Pt was studied in acid and alkaline media. The reaction intermediates and products formed were determined by in situ Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The experimental FTIR spectra measured on Au and Pt in acid and alkaline media were compared with the standard ones for the identification of the oxidation products. For Au, the oxidation reaction is highly dependent on the solution pH. In alkaline medium, dihydroxyacetone, tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid, glyoxylic acid, and carbon dioxide are formed while in acidic medium tartronic acid, formic acid, and carbon dioxide are formed. However, the oxidation of glycerol on Pt leads to the formation of tartronic acid, glycolic acid, glyoxylic acid, formic acid, and carbon dioxide, independent of the solution pH. For both electrode materials, Pt and Au, carbon dioxide is detected indicating the possible breaking of the C–C–C bonds. Clearly, the glycerol oxidation pathways can be controlled by the nature of the electrode material and solution pH. Furthermore, glycerol is a typical compound that has potentiality to produce electricity when feed a fuel cell while many chemicals with commercial interest are concomitantly formed.
The three γ-pyrone derivatives, i.e. comenic acid, rubiginic acid and rubiginol were confirmed to be formed from glucose via gluconate, 2-ketogluconate and 2,5-diketogluconate by Gluconoacetobacter liq.. Other organic acids, such as glycolic and tartronic acids were also formed from glucose via 2,5-diketogluconate. Thus, the presumable pathway of glucose degradation to the three γ-pyrone derivatives is proposed here.
Abstract Bi has been widely employed as a modifier for Pd and Pt based catalyst mainly in order to improve selectivity. We found that when Bi was added to the bimetallic system AuPd, the effect on activity in alcohol oxidation mainly depends on the amount of Bi regardless its position, being negligible when Bi was 0.1 wt% and detectably negative when the amount was increased to 3 wt%. However, the selectivity of the reactions notably varied only when Bi was deposited on the surface of metal nanoparticles suppressing parallel reaction in both benzyl alcohol and glycerol oxidation. After a careful characterization of all the catalysts and additional catalytic tests, we concluded that the Bi influence on the activity of the catalysts could be ascribed to electronic effect whereas the one on selectivity mainly to a geometric modification. Moreover, the Bi-modified AuPd/AC catalyst showed possible application in the production of tartronic acid, a useful intermediate, from glycerol.
In particular, the oxidation of glycerol leads to a complex network of reactions in which a large number of products such as dihydroxyacetone (DIHA), glyceric acid (GLYA), glycolic acid (GLYCA), oxalic acid (OXALA) and tartronic acid (TARAC) are obtained (Scheme 1) [3] . Many of these products are useful intermediate substances or valuable fine chemicals. For instance, glycolic acid is among the most popular functional ingredients in anti-ageing formulations. These products are currently synthesized by very expensive or complicated chemical processes or via biotechnology [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] .
Abstract A short synthetic route for the preparation of D -tartronic acid semialdehyde phosphate and D -glyceric acid 2-phosphate from the readily available starting material, D -gluconolactone, is described. Enzymic tests of the two phosphate esters as inhibitor and substrate, of enolase, respectively, are reported.
Biomass is a valid renewable alternative to fossil fuels for the production of valuable fine chemicals and fuels [1, 2] . One of the main alternative bio-renewable materials is triglycerides, which are the major component of vegetable oils, waste grease, and oil-processing waste [1, 2] . The materials have been utilized for the production of biodiesel by the transesterification of triglycerides with methanol, with glycerol as the main by-product. It is expected that substantial amounts of crude glycerol will have to be processed as waste with the current worldwide annual production of biodiesel being around 30 million tons. Therefore, the large amount of glycerol generated is a potential environmental problem, since it cannot be disposed of in the environment. Due to the fact that glycerol is a highly functionalized molecule, it can be utilized as a platform chemical for the production of high-added-value products [3, 4] . Glycerol can be converted through oxidation processes to a variety of valuable chemicals, such as dihydroxyacetone, glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, glycolic acid, tartronic acid, hydroxypyruvic acid, and lactic acid [3, 4] . Different supported noble metal nanoparticles (Au, Pd, Pt, Ru) have been used as catalysts for this reaction with molecular oxygen as oxidant. Pt and Pd catalysts were the first to show a good activity in this reaction [5, 6] . However, a drawback in using these catalysts is the deactivation due to metal overoxidation and irreversible adsorption of products and intermediates [5, 6] . On the contrary, gold has been demonstrated to be active, selective and a long-life catalyst [7] . The main limitation of gold monometallic catalysts appears to be the requirement for basic conditions to promote the first step of the oxidative dehydrogenation (H-abstraction) [8, 9] . To elucidate the oxidation state of the gold and platinum species, XPS was employed (Table 1, Figure S2 ). The oxidation state of Au at the surface of the catalyst was evaluated by analyzing the values of binding energy (BE) of the Au4f7/2 peak. The BE of 83.4 ± 0.1 eV is evidence that Au is present in the metallic state (Au 0 , BE = 84.2 eV). The oxidation state of Pt at the surface of the catalyst was evaluated by analyzing the values of binding energy (BE) of the Pt4f7/2 peak. In the bimetallic samples, the Pt signal presented one species at 70.4 ± 0.2 eV, corresponding to Pt 0 . On the contrary the monometallic catalyst presented two contributions, the main one at 71.0 eV corresponding to Pt 0 To elucidate the oxidation state of the gold and platinum species, XPS was employed (Table 1 , Figure S2 ). The oxidation state of Au at the surface of the catalyst was evaluated by analyzing the values of binding energy (BE) of the Au4f 7/2 peak. The BE of 83.4 ± 0.1 eV is evidence that Au is present in the metallic state (Au 0 , BE = 84.2 eV). The oxidation state of Pt at the surface of the catalyst was evaluated by analyzing the values of binding energy (BE) of the Pt4f 7/2 peak. In the bimetallic samples, the Pt signal presented one species at 70.4 ± 0.2 eV, corresponding to Pt 0 . On the contrary the monometallic catalyst presented two contributions, the main one at 71.0 eV corresponding to Pt 0 (77.0%) and a secondary one at 72.4 eV (27.0%) corresponding to Pt II (PtO). The slight decrease to a lower BE than the typical values obtained for metallic gold and platinum (84.0 and 71.4 eV, respectively) could be attributable either to the different degrees of charging of the metal particles in the presence of TiO 2 or to the particle size effect [28] [29] [30] . Table 1 According to previous reports, these electronic changes in the BE are due to the interaction of Au-Pt due to the formation and presence of AuPt alloy nanoparticles [31, 32] . Moreover, the absence of Pt II signal in the bimetallic systems, suggests a strong interaction between Au and Pt which probably prevents the partial oxidation of Pt surface and indicates the presence of gold-rich surface nanoparticles. The AuPt ratio measured by AAS is in good agreement with the nominal one, for almost all the catalysts (Table 1) . Moreover, differences are evidenced on the surface atomic composition of the bimetallic nanoparticles measured by XPS. In the case of Au 9 Pt 1 /TiO 2 , Au 6 Pt 4 /TiO 2 , and Au 1 Pt 9 /TiO 2 catalysts, the Au/Pt atomic ratio measured by XPS is higher by~30% and in the case of Au 2 Pt 8 /TiO 2 by 133% than the corresponding bulk Au/Pt atomic ratio, which can indicate surface enrichment of Au atoms in the aforementioned bimetallic nanoparticles (Table 1) . On the contrary, Au 8 Pt 2 /TiO 2 , the Au/Pt is lower by~10% than the corresponding bulk Au/Pt ratio, which can indicate surface segregation of Pt atoms in these nanoparticles. The catalytic performance of the prepared catalysts was evaluated in the liquid phase oxidation of glycerol in the presence of base (NaOH), (Glycerol 0.3 M, Alcohol/metal: 1000, T = 80 • C, pO 2 = 3 atm, 4 eq NaOH) or under base-free conditions (Glycerol 0.3 M, Alcohol/metal: 1000, T = 80 • C, pO 2 = 3 atm) ( Table 3 and Figures 2-4) . Table 2 reports the activity and selectivity at iso-conversion (90%) in presence of NaOH. The activity was calculated based on the moles of glycerol converted per hour per total mol of metal. All bimetallic systems showed an activity higher (>3000 h −1 ) than the corresponding monometallic ones (2657 and 2569 h −1 for Au/TiO 2 and Pt/TiO 2 , respectively) ( Table 2 and Figure 2 ). Considering the bimetallic systems, it can be observed that the best catalytic result was obtained by Au 9 Pt 1 /TiO 2 (7389 h −1 ). Decreasing the Au content, the activity progressively decreased, AuPt: 9:1 (7389 h −1 ) > 8:2 (6845 h −1 ) > 6:4 (5052 h −1 ) > 2:8 (3375 h −1 ) > 1:9 (2569 h −1 ). Figure 3 shows similar reaction profiles for all the catalysts and no evident deactivation phenomena seem to be present, reaching almost full conversion after 2 h. To confirm the resistance of AuPt catalysts to deactivation, stability tests have been performed using Au 9 Pt 1 /TiO 2 , the catalyst presenting the highest activity (Table 2) . Recycling experiments were carried out by filtering and using the catalyst in the next run without any further purification. The catalyst showed similar conversion and selectivity for six runs (Figure 4 ). The selectivity of the reaction seems to be strongly influenced by the atomic ratio of Au/Pt. The selectivity has been reported in iso-conversion. It should be noted that the selectivity did not show significant modification as a function of the time on stream ( Figure S3 ). The monometallic Au/TiO 2 catalyst showed a selectivity to glyceric acid of 50%, with glycolic acid (24%) and formic acid (14%), deriving from the C-C cleavage of glyceric acid, as main by-products (Table 2) . Increasing the Pt content, a general decrease in the selectivity to glyceric acid was envisaged with the formation of higher amounts of formic and glycolic acid ( Table 2 ). In the case of monometallic Pt/TiO 2 , formic acid (40%) was the main product.
Anionic polymerization of α-carbonyl acids such as ketomalonic acid, glyoxylic acid, and pyruvic acid, via carbonyl group to form the corresponding polyether in basic aqueous media, was presented. Cogeneration of carbonyl form of monomer and the carbanion of tartronic acid disodium salt was essential for the anionic polymerization. © 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 36: 189–193, 1998
Glycerol electro-oxidation offers a green route to produce the high value added chemicals. Here in, we report the glycerol electro-oxidation over a series of multi walled carbon nano tubes supported monometallic (Pt/CNT and Pd/CNT) and bimetallic (Pt-Pd/CNT) catalysts in alkaline medium. The cyclic voltammetry, linear sweep voltammetry and chronoamperometry measurements were used to evaluate the activity and stability of the catalysts. The Pt-Pd/CNT electrocatalyst exhibited the highest activity in terms of higher current density (129.25 A/m2) and electrochemical surface area (382 m2/g). The glycerol electro-oxidation products formed at a potential of 0.013 V were analyzed systematically by high performance liquid chromatography. Overall, six compounds were found including mesoxalic acid, 1,3-dihydroxyacetone, glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, tartronic acid and oxalic acid. A highest mesoxalic acid selectivity of 86.42 % was obtained for Pt-Pd/CNT catalyst while a maximum tartronic acid selectivity of 50.17 % and 46.02 % was achieved for Pd/CNT and Pt/CNT respectively. It was found that the introduction of Pd into Pt/CNT lattice facilitated the formation of C3 products in terms of maximum selectivity achieved (86.42 %) while the monometallic catalysts (Pd/CNT and Pt/CNT) showed a poor performance in comparison to their counterpart.
Abstract It has been shown that the oral ingestion of high amounts of glucose results in a marked increase of blood alloxan. Some carbohydrate metabolites exert a similar blood alloxan increasing effect. Malic acid shows no effect. The intraperitoneal injection of small amounts of alloxan resulted in hyperglycemia. It is suggested that carbohydrate has a normal function in alloxan metabolism. Alloxan cannot be formed by mesoxalic nor tartronic acids even in toxic amounts. Tartronic and mesoxalic acids show high toxicity. Further research on the connexion between carbohydrate and alloxan metabolism will be published in detail later.
The SMB unit developed by the Laboratory of Separation and Reaction Engineering (FlexSMB-LSRE®) was used to perform tartronic acid (TTA) and glyceric acid (GCA) separation and to validate the mathematical model in order to determine the optimum operating parameters of an industrial unit. The purity of the raffinate and extract streams in the experiments performed were 80% and 100%, respectively. The TTA and GCA productivities were 79 and 115 kg per liter of adsorbent per day, respectively and only 0.50 cubic meters of desorbent were required per kilogram of products. Under the optimum operating conditions, which were determined through an extensive simulation study based on the mathematical model developed to predict the performance of a real SMB unit, it was possible to achieve a productivity of 86 kg of TTA and 176 kg of GCA per cubic meter of adsorbent per day (considering the typical commercial purity value of 97% for both compounds) with an eluent consumption of 0.30 cubic meters per kilogram of products.
Ketomalonic acid (KM or mesoxalic acid) generated in situ by catalytic oxidation of glycerol by tartronic acid (TA, a precursor for KM), polymerized via ketone-carbonyl even in water to form the corresponding polyethers, which gradually decomposed with liberation of carbon dioxide. Generation of KM ketone-form, which is not available as an authentic reagent, is essential for the new polymerization reaction. Excess catalytic oxidation of TA, over a Bi,Pt two-component catalyst supported on charcoal, resulted in the formation of poly(oxymethylene) via poly(ketomalonate), which is part of the evidence for the existence of the oxidative polymerization of TA. A carbanion of TA disodium salt is a good anionic initiator, and both perchloric acid and zinc chloride (Lewis acids) were good cationic initiators for the polymerization of KM. The polymerization via ketone-carbonyl and the hydration of the ketone-carbonyl of KM are the competitive relaxation processes for the active ketone-structure of KM. The present study presents the first examples of oxidative polymerization of tartronic acid in water which can be formed by catalytic oxidation of glycerol. The new polymerization reactions were applied to glyoxylic acid and pyruvic acids as α-carbonyl acids to form the corresponding polyethers.
Tartronic acid as monomers,low molecular weight polymers were synthesized by condensation polymerization method,the molecular weight of the oligomer was measured,and the n-hexane solution of the dye Sudan Ⅲ was extracted with a 5% aqueous solution of the oligomer,using UV spectrophotometry method extract the dye concentration,the results show that the synthetic oligomer molecular weight to achieve a higher value when the oligomers of the dye Sudan Ⅲ package together,indicating that the oligomer dendritic molecular structures,the internal cavities of the dendrimer are hydrophobic and can accommodate the hydrophobic dye molecules.The experiment of synthesis conditions showed that the monomer content of 10 to 20%,a temperature of 100℃,140 to 160 minutes of polymerization time,the synthesis of oligomers on the n-hexane solution of the dye Sudan Ⅲ have a higher concentration of the extraction.
Abstract Caffeoyltartronic acid and other eleven phenolic com pounds were identified in the MeOH extract of Chondrilla juncea: the flavonoids luteolin, luteolin-7-glucoside, luteolin-7-galactosylglucuronide and quercetin-3-galactoside; the phenolic acids protocatechuic, caffeic, chlorogenic, isochlorogenic and isoferulic and the coumarins cichoriin and aesculetin. The taxonomic im plications of these com pounds have been discussed.
The anionic polymerization of ketomalonic acid disodium salt via a ketone carbonyl group, initiated by the in situ generation of the carbanion of tartronic acid disodium salt, was observed in the preparation of tartronic acid disodium salt by catalytic oxidation of glycerol in a basic aqueous solution using a fixed-bed reactor packed with palladium based catalyst. Model reactions using authentic reagents of tartronic acid and ketomalonic acid demonstrated the anionic polymerization of ketomalonic acid disodium salt. © 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 36: 195–205, 1998
U n ita t de F arm acognosia, D ep artam en t de F arm aco lo g ia, F a cu lta t de F arm ac ia, U niversität de V alencia, c/V icent A ndres Estelles s/n, B urjassot, 46100 V alencia, Spain Z. N aturforsch. 48c, 4 1 7 -4 1 9 (1993); received N ov em b er 9 /D ecem ber 21, 1992 Chondrilla juncea, L actuceae, A steraceae, C affeo y ltartro n ic Acid, F lav o n o id s C affeoyltartronic acid and oth er eleven phenolic co m p o u n d s were identified in the M eO H ex tract o f Chondrilla juncea: the flavonoids luteolin, luteolin-7-glucoside, luteolin-7-galactosylglucuronide and quercetin-3-galactoside; the phenolic acids p ro to catech u ic, caffeic, chlorogenic, isochlorogenic and isoferulic an d the coum arins cichoriin and aesculetin. T he ta x o n o m ic im plications o f these com pounds have been discussed.
Glycerol is a major by-product of the biodiesel production and is therefore produced in high quantities. While currently there are limited possible applications for this highly functionalized molecule, glycerol can be a cheap and abundant feedstock for value-added products that are accessible by selective oxidation. Usually, the selective oxidation of glycerol utilizes expensive noble metal catalysts, such as Au, Pt, and Pd. Here we report the selective oxidation of glycerol in basic media, using ordered mesoporous Cu–Al2O3 catalysts with various Cu loadings prepared by a facile soft-templating method. The materials were characterized in detail by nitrogen physisorption, vis-NIR spectroscopy, EDX, low- and wide-angle XRD, XPS, and TEM. Subsequently the reaction conditions for glycerol oxidation were optimized. The catalytic oxidation of glycerol yields C3 products, such as glyceric acid and tartronic acid, and also C2 and C1 products, such as glycolic acid, oxalic acid, and formic acid. Moreover, the role of the solvent on the catalytic reaction was investigated, and the addition of various co-solvents to the aqueous reaction mixture was found to increase the initial reaction rate up to a factor of three. The trends of the initial reaction rates correlate well with the polarity of the water/co-solvent mixtures. The prepared Cu–Al2O3 catalysts are a more cost-efficient and environmentally viable alternative to the reported noble metal catalysts.
Abstract Kraft pulp and alkali-cooked cotton have been treated with hydrogen peroxide in the presence of alkali. The alditol (produced by reduction) and acid end-groups were isolated by chromatography. It is concluded that existing deoxyaldonic acid end-groups are partly destroyed and new reducing end-groups are produced, which, in turn, are degraded stepwise until the glycosidic bond is reached. Further degradation is then retarded. The presence of hexonic acid end-groups and C -(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)tartronic acid in the spent liquor obtained after treatment of hydrocellulose indicate that carbonyl groups have been introduced oxidatively.
Abstract A novel Cerium(IV) mediated oxygenation of dialkyl malonates leading to a direct synthesis of tartronic acid derivatives is described.
The authors study the effects of three acids, one with four carbon atoms, dihydroxymaleic acid, the two others with three carbon considered atoms, ketomalonic acid and tartronic acid. A first study considered the effects of these products on experimental lithiasis induced by oxalic acid, glyoxylic acid and ethylene-glycol. Dihydroxymaleic acid. Monohydrate calcium oxalate stones can be easily induced in the male rat, with in 24 hours, by an intraperitoneal injection of oxalic acid, at the rate of 8 mg per 100 g of body weight. If 25 mg of dihydroxymaleic acid are injected simultaneously via the intraperitoneal route, to a rat weighing 150 g, the lithiasis observed after 24 hours is just as severe. Experimental monohydrate calcium oxalate lithiasis is also induced by intraperitoneal injection of 8 to 9 mg of glyoxylic acid in a 100 mg rat. Dihydroxymaleic acid, injected at the same time as glyoxylic acid, also via the intraperitoneal route, at the rate of 50 mg for a rat weighing 150 g, results in total suppression of the lithiasis. Dihydroxymaleic acid also prevents lithiasis induced by the absorption by the rat, for several weeks, of a 1% ethylene-glycol solution if it is mixed to this solution at the rate of 5 mg per ml. A 12% ethylene-glycol solution given to the rat at the rate of 0.55 ml for 100 g of body weight induces the next day a comatose state and a diffuse parenchymatous monohydrate calcium oxalate lithiasis: coma and lithiasis are prevented by the simultaneous absorption of dihydroxymaleic acid at the rate of 65 to 70 mg. The ketomalonic acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Abstract The present study is about the use of ferrioxalate photoactive complexes as a strategy to drive a photo-Fenton reaction at mild pH conditions, applied to the oxidation of antibiotic levofloxacin (LEV) in pure water and spiked in urban wastewater after secondary treatment. The oxidation ability of the solar photo-Fenton mediated by ferrioxalate complexes (SPFF) was evaluated at different pH values (3.0 to 6.0) for an iron/oxalate molar ratio of 1:3 and using low iron contents (1.0 and 2.0 mg Fe 3+ L −1 ). Additionally, the effect of LEV concentration (2–20 mg L −1 ), iron:oxalate molar ratio (1:3, 1:6 and 1:9), temperature (15–45 °C), UVA irradiance (27.8-59.9 W UV m −2 ), presence of inorganic ions (Cl − , SO 4 2− , HCO 3 − , NH 4 + ), radical scavengers (sodium azide, humic acid and D-mannitol), and others organic ligands, namely citrate and malate, on the SPFF method at pH 5.0 was also assessed. Although the conventional solar photo-Fenton (CSPF) reaction showed similar results to SPFF for pH values ≤ 4, an almost 3.3-fold and 5.7-fold increase in the LEV degradation rate at pH 5.0 and 6.0, respectively, were observed for SPFF when compared to CSPF. This is mainly attributed to the higher photoactivity and solubility of ferrioxalate complexes when compared with ferric ion-water complexes. On the other hand, ferrioxalate complexes exhibited higher photoactivity on LEV removal than ferricitrate and ferrimalate. The presence of phosphate ions in the urban wastewater affected negatively the reaction rate, mainly due to the precipitation of iron as FePO 4(s) , hence a H 2 O 2 /UVC process at different conditions was also explored as an alternative. A pilot-scale assay under natural solar irradiation showed similar results to the ones obtained in the lab-scale photoreactor. Oxalic, formic, citric, and tartronic acids were identified as residual acids in SPFF at pilot scale.
Abstract This study deals with the production of a magnetic photocatalyst using a new magnetizing technique – growth of magnetite crystals onto P-25 TiO 2 particles from Degussa. Magnetite (MT) crystals were grown via the synthesis of layered Fe II –Fe III hydroxide sulfate (green rust) on the surfaces of TiO 2 . The magnetite/P-25 TiO 2 aggregates (MT/P-25) were characterized with XRD and TEM. The structure of the P-25 TiO 2 photocatalyst appeared to be unchanged by the treatment. The photocatalytic activity of MT/P-25 in aqueous suspensions were tested in the near neutral pH area where magnetite is stable and compared to the photoactivity of pure P-25 TiO 2 . Photooxidation of tartronic acid (TA) was first used to test the photooxidative efficiency of MT/P-25 followed by other more complex compounds: aqueous solution of 2,6 difluorobenzoic acid (2,6 DFBA) as well as the natural organic matter in water from the Hohloh Lake, Germany (NOM-HLW). For the TA photocatalytic oxidation with MT/P-25 similar oxidation rates were observed as for the P-25 TiO 2 , but for 2,6 DFBA and NOM-HLW the degradation rates were higher for pure P-25 TiO 2 . Two types of laboratory reactors were applied for photocatalytic degradation of 2,6 DFBA and NOM-HLW: a reactor (400 mL) with an artificial UV radiation source and the other one (800 mL) that was irradiated by natural solar radiation. Photonic efficiencies of organic substrates degradation processes for both types of the reactors were calculated and compared. The bigger reactor showed better results in degradation of organic substrates (photonic efficiency was more than 7 times higher for 2,6 DFBA). Magnetic separation using a simple separator (hand magnet, batch experiment) showed a mass loss less than 3% of MT/P-25 per experiment. However, using a high gradient magnetic separator (with continuous flow) less than 0.3% of MT/P-25 aggregates were lost with a suspension flow rate of 250 mL/min. In both cases magnetically separated and reused MT/P-25 showed practically unchanged photoactivity. The mechanical stability of the MT/P-25 was checked comparing the photoactivity of MT/P-25 in TA solution without prior stirring and after stirring in the reactor “in the dark” for durations of 80 and 160 h. No significant differences were observed in their photoactivity before and after stirring. However, ultrasonication of the MT/P-25 at 35 kHz for 60 min separated the MT/P-25 material into MT and TiO 2 . Nevertheless, for practical purposes the stability of the aggregates during the mechanical stirring and during the magnetic separation is of major importance.
Taking four cucumber inbred lines as parents,the combining ability of tartronic acid content in cucumber fruits were investigated according Griffing I,in order to breed the cucumber cross parent and the new varieties with high tartronic acid content.The results showed that,the general combining ability was among-0.1232~0.1153,and the special combining ability ranged in-0.1079~0.0678;tartronic acid content was mainly influenced by additive effects, non-additive affected,but was not influenced by the cytoplasm effect.
Glycerol has the potential of being a low-cost and extremely versatile building block. However, current transformation strategies such based on noble-metal-catalysts show several disadvantages including catalyst deactivation or negative environmental impacts. In this study glycerol was oxidized by 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyl (TEMPO) in the presence of laccase from Trametes hirsuta. Analysis of the reaction production indicated sequential oxidation to glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid and tartronic acid, finally resulting in mesoxalic acid. The number and nature of oxidation products was depended on the concentration of TEMPO used. At lower TEMPO concentrations (<6 mM) the major initial reaction product was glyceraldehyde while at higher concentration in addition considerable amounts of glyceric acid were formed. Glycerol oxidation was also shown with laccase immobilised on alumina pellets which increased laccase stability.
Treatment of alkylenebismalonates with NaH and benzoyl peroxide afforded dibenzoyloxy derivatives. Alkaline hydrolysis of the latter gave alkylenebistartronic acids. Tetramethyl and tetraethyl esters and tetraamides of these acids were synthesized
A number of fluorescence studies, both of trp residues and bound NADH, have been reported for porcine malate dehydrogenase (MDH). The large number of trp residues (six) complicates the interpretation of some studies. To circumvent this we have performed studies with a two-tryptophan (per subunit) MDH from Bradyrhizobium japonicum 3I1B-143 bacteroids. We have performed phase/modulation fluorescence lifetime measurements, as a function of temperature and added quencher KI, in order to resolved the 1.2-ns (blue) and 6.5-ns (red) contributions from the two classes of trp residues. Anisotropy decay studies have also been performed. The binding of NADH dynamically quenches the fluorescence of both trp residues, but, unlike mammalian cytoplasmic and mitochondrial MDH, there is not a large enhancement in fluorescence of bound NADH upon forming a ternary complex with either tartronic acid or D-malate.
Mesoxalic acid (ketomalonic acid) was prepared by oxidative dehydrogenation with air of tartronic acid in aqueous solution on carbon-supported platinum-bismuth catalysts. By increasing the pH, using a higher catalyst/substrate ratio or increasing the temperature, higher yields could be obtained (maximum yield obtained of 65% at 80% conversion). The results obtained for this reaction and for the analogous catalytic oxidations of glyceric acid to hydroxypyruvic acid, and lactic acid to pyruvic acid, enabled a general reaction mechanism to be proposed for the selective oxidation of α-hydroxy acids to α-keto acids on platinum-bismuth catalysts.
Benzodifuranones were developed by ICI researchers twenty years ago. Red benzodifuranones are one of the most successful new classes of commercial dyes due to their bright colours and excellent wash and sublimation fastness properties. In this study, red and blue benzodifuranones have been synthesised and their physical properties measured. Red benzodifuranones were synthesised from the half-condensed intermediates and alkoxymandelic acid derivatives. Blue benzodifuranones were synthesised from the half-condensed intermediates and phenyltartronic acid derivatives.
In this work, glycerol valorization into tartronic acid – one of the most valuable derivatives of glycerol – was reported over platinum supported on multi-walled carbon nanotubes (Pt/CNT) electrocatalyst. The nanocatalyst was synthesized using a chemical reduction method with hydrazine as a reducing agent. The physical analyses of catalyst were performed by BET, XRD, FESEM, EDX, and TEM. The XRD spectroscopy indicated a face-centered cubic crystalline structure with an average crystallite size of 4.2 nm. The field emission scanning electron microscopy analysis revealed that the particles were uniformly distributed over multi-walled carbon nanotubes, while EDX showed the elemental composition of Pt (17.52%) and C (82.48%). Electrochemical activity and stability of the catalyst were measured using cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperometry techniques. Electrochemical surface area (ECSA, 226.52 m2/g) and mass activity (MA, 5.74 mA/mg) were calculated in 0.5 M H2SO4 and 0.5 M glycerol/0.5 M KOH solution, respectively. The catalytic activity of Pt/CNT nanoparticles was analyzed from glycerol oxidation reaction (GOR), while the products distribution and selectivity were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). It was found that the tartronic acid was produced as a major product with a selectivity of 95.3% while small quantities (<1%) of mesoxalic acid, dihydroxyacetone, and glyceric acid were also produced. The higher activity and selectivity of Pt/CNT can be attributed to high electrochemical surface area and uniform distribution over support.
The deoxyaldaric acids corresponding in structure to the 3-deoxy-2-C-(hydroxymethyl)aldonic (isosaccharinic) acids have been identified as products of treatment of various carbohydrates with alkali and oxygen-alkali. The structures of the acids were determined from the mass spectra of their Me3Si derivatives on the basis of previously known, specific fragmentation reactions. The g.l.c.-m.s. technique was used, and g.l.c. retention data are given. The identified species are 2-deoxy-3-C-(hydroxymethyl)tetraric, 3-deoxy-2-C-hydroxymethyl-erythro-pentaric, 3-deoxy-2-C-hydroxymethyl-threo-pentaric, 2-methyltartronic, 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)tartronic, and 2-(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)tartronic acids. Their formation from 4-O-substituted uronic and ulosonic acids is briefly discussed.
Vacuoles isolated frommesophyi protoplasts oftheCrassulacean acid metabolism plant Bryophyliwn daigremnwa n takeup14CIL-malic acid fromthemedium. Theinitial rates ofuptake showsaturation kinetics (apparent Kmabout Imillimolar). Incompetition experiments, theuptake rates ofL-malic acid aregreatly reduced inthepresence ofasurplus ofDmalic andtartronic acid. A numberofother acids aremuchless effective andaspartic andisocitric acid havevirtually noeffect. Theuptake rateof malic acidisunchanged inthepresence ofATPandtheuncouplers dinitrophenol andcarbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone. Whenthe vacuoles areisolated intheabsence ofbovine serumalbumin orwhen1 milimolar HgCl2 isadded, theyareinactive intransport butretain their malic acid pool. Theexistence ofaspecific permease whichcatalyzes an exchange diffusion ofmalic acid acrossthevacuolar membrane ispostulated. CAM isa conspicuous feature ofphotosynthesis invarious succulent plants. Itischaracterized byfixation ofCO2andaccumulation ofmalic acid atnight, andtheutilization ofthis acid as anendogenous source ofCO2during thesubsequent light period. Thus, CAM isassociated withtherhythmic filling upanddepletion oflarge storage pools ofmalic acid. Forobvious reasons it hastacitly beenassumed that during acidification atnight, malic
Glycerol (C3H8O3), a waste product of bio‐diesel, is considered as a suitable substrate for electro‐oxidation process to generate high value added products. In this work, palladium nanoparticles supported over activated MWCNTs with loadings of 5%‐40% were prepared using chemical reduction method and further employed to explore their potential for electro‐oxidation of glycerol to produce various high‐value‐compounds. The catalysts were characterized by physiochemical methods, such as X‐ray diffraction (XRD), Brunauer‐Emmett‐Teller (BET), and Transmission electron microscopy, while the electro‐oxidation activity of the catalysts was analysed using cyclic voltammetry (CV) and chronoamperometry (CA), and the products were identified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The electrochemical surface area (SESA) and mass activity (MA) were increased from 176.98 m2 g‐1 to 282.29 m2 g‐1 and 12.22 mA/mg to 49.53 mA/mg by increasing the Pd‐loading from 5% to 20%, respectively. While the further increase to 40% Pd loading, the SESA and MA values decreased to 231.45 m2 g‐1 and 47.63 mA/mg respectively. The results found that the optimum 20% Pd‐loading showed the excellent electrochemical properties due to exceptional distribution of Pd‐metal particles over MWCNTs. HPLC analysis showed the tartronic acid, glyceric acid and glyceraldehyde as dominant products. Mechanism of the reaction has also been proposed based on product distribution.
Abstract A method for the isolation, identification, and quantitative estimation of tartronic acid in plant and animal tissues, and in urine is described. Using this method of identification and analysis the tartronic acid content of some urines and various plant and animal tissues has been determined, and the results compared with values previously reported by others. A report in the literature that tartronate is not metabolized by the rat has been confirmed.
Glycerol (C3H8O3), a waste product from biodiesel synthesis, is considered as a suitable substrate for electro-oxidation process to generate high value-added products. In this work, palladium nanoparticles supported over activated multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) with varying loadings of 5%-40% were prepared using chemical reduction method. It was further employed for electro-oxidation of glycerol to produce various high value-added products. The catalysts were characterized by different physicochemical methods, such as xray diffraction (XRD), liquid N2 physisorption, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), whereas the electro-oxidation activity of the catalysts was analysed using cyclic voltammetry (CV) and chronoamperometry (CA). The products were identified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). It was found that the electrochemical surface area (SESA) and mass activity (MA) have increased from 176.98 m 2 g -1 to 282.29 m 2 g -1 and 12.22 mA mg -1 to 49.53 mA mg -1 , respectively, by increasing the Pd-loading from 5% to 20%. A further increase to 40% Pd loading showed that, the SESA and MA values decreased to 231.45 m 2 g -1 and 47.63 mA mg -1 . The optimum 20% Pd-loading showed excellent electrochemical properties due to uniform distribution of Pd-metal particles over MWCNTs. HPLC results showed that tartronic acid, glyceric acid and glyceraldehyde formed the dominant products. Mechanism of the reaction has also been proposed based on product distribution.
To explore the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) from the perspective of metabolomics, gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF/MS) technology was used to observe changes in the metabolic profiles of urine output from rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA). Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into a control group and an experimental group, with eight in each. Rats in the experimental group were induced by intracutaneous innoculation of 0.1 mL Freund's complete adjuvant to right paws. On day 20 after immunization, the metabolic profiles between rat control and experimental groups were compared by combining GC-TOF/MS technology with multivariate statistical approaches, including principal component analysis, partial least squares discriminant analysis and orthogonal projections to latent structures-discriminant analysis. Nine potential biomarkers were identified, including 2,2-dimethylsuccinic acid, tartronic acid, dehydroshikimic acid, hippuric acid, adenine, phenaceturic acid, l-dopa, 1,4-dihydroxy-2-naphthoic acid and melibiose. The findings indicate that the rats with AA are disturbed in metabolism of purine, amino acid, fat and energy. This study also demonstrates that the dysfunction in a range of biosynthetic and catabolic pathways, which leads to increased oxygen free radicals and inflammation, could cause underlying pathogenesis of RA. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract DTA and non-isothermal UV measurements of the oxidation of malonic, tartronic, glyoxylic and monobromomalonic acids by ceric sulphate in dilute aqueous sulphuric acid were evaluated using the novel one-step strategies for the determination of quantities typical of mechanism. Due to the kinetic evaluation, experiments with malonic acid reveal the expected bimolecular reaction only in definite concentration ranges. For very small ceric ion concentrations, the large resulting reaction heats suggest that ceric ion catalyzes the oxidation of malonic acid and its oxidation products, via the corresponding organic radicals and intermediate addition of molecular oxygen. If the concentration is raised, different scenarios in a rather complex mechanism are passed, which include situations of first-order, zeroth-order, autocatalytic and consecutive character with crossing-over effects. For sufficient concentration of the cerium salt, the kinetics are influenced by repetitive oxidation of malonic acid to tartronic and glyoxylic acid by the metal salt. This interpretation is in accordance both with results of experiments with tartronic acid and glyoxylic acid as well as with attempts to simulate the experimental signals approximately using a model of seven coupled reactions.
The reaction between ozone and the three cresol isomers was investigated in pure water. Cresols were selected as model substrates representing an important component of humic material. Cresols carry both a hydroxyl and a methyl group, each theoretically increasing the reactivity of ozone with the aromatic ring. Direct comparison of the aromatic ring and the methyl group reactivities was made possible by the analysis of reaction products. The substrate degradation kinetics was studied by preparing aqueous solutions of each cresol and treating them with ozone for increasing time periods. It had been hypothesized that hydroxybenzaldehydes and hydroxybenzoic acids could be possible degradation intermediates of cresols. To verify this hypothesis, the degradation kinetics of three hydroxybenzaldehydes and two hydroxybenzoic acids were also studied. The reaction products were studied using gas chromatography (GC)-electron capture negative ionization (ECNI)-mass spectrometry (MS) analysis after direct derivatization of the samples with 5-chloro-2,2,3,3,4,4,5,5-octafluoro-1-pentyl chloroformate (ClOFPCF). This new analytical approach enables the extraction and analysis of highly polar polycarboxylic and hydroxycarboxylic acids, as well as highly polar aldehydes and hydroxy aldehydes that are difficult to extract and measure using conventional methods. As such, this new approach offered insights into ozone reaction intermediates that had been previously hypothesized, but not confirmed. Several highly hydrophilic degradation intermediates were identified, including malic, citraconic, itaconic, malonic, methylmuconic, and tartronic acid, but no hydroxybenzaldehydes were observed. The results support a 3-stage mechanism previously hypothesized, which involves ring-opening of the phenolic group, followed by the generation of several intermediates of increasing oxidation state, finally leading to relatively stable products, such as malonic and oxalic acids. We demonstrated that oxidation of the methyl group does not occur during cresol degradation.
The oxidation of glycerol by molecular oxygen in the aqueous phase over Au/TiO2 was investigated in both a batch reactor and a continuous upflow fixed bed reactor. The effects of catalyst particle size, gas flow rate, liquid flow rate, reaction temperature, dioxygen pressure, and solution pH were examined in the fixed bed system. The unique hydrodynamics of the fixed bed system allowed for secondary oxidation products such as tartronic acid and oxalic acid to form in substantial amounts, which contrasts the product distribution observed in a batch system. These results suggest that reactor configuration can play an important role in the observed product selectivity from oxidation reactions over highly active gold catalysts.
The transformation of glycerol into valuable chemicals and fuels has attracted significant attention in recent years from both academia and industry research groups because of its high potential as a promising bio renewable sustainable chemical building block [1] [2] [3] [4] . The annual production of glycerol has been estimated to be higher than 2 million tonnes per year [5] and the main process of production is via the synthesis of biodiesel by the transesterification process using oils and fats with methanol [6] . A range of significant chemical processes have been studied and proposed for the effective transformation of glycerol to a variety of valuable chemicals, such as dihydroxyacetone, glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, glycolic acid, tartronic acid, hydroxypyruvic acid, lactic acid, acrylic acid using oxidation/dehydration processes (Scheme 1) [7] [8] [9] [10] . Due to the diverse range of products one of the main challenges is to control activity, selectivity and stability during the chemical process. Several strategies have been employed to control product selectivity and activity based on the use of bimetallic and trimetallic nanoparticles [11] . Bimetallic Au-Pd, Au-Pt and trimetallic (Au-Pd-Pt) catalysts have shown to be more active than their monometallic counterparts, and achieving high selectivity for the selective production of glyceric and tartronic acids with improved stability in particular under mild base-free conditions [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] . One of the most desired and challenging intermediates of the glycerol oxidation process is the selective production of dihydroxyacetone, which is a primary product of the glycerol oxidation process [20] .
Ethyl benzyloxymalonate was shown to be hydrolyzed readily by alkali to yield sodium or potassium benzyloxymalonate which could be transformed into the crystalline free acid. On catalytic hydrogenolysis of the benzyl residue, tartronic acid was obtained in good yield.
Abstract Trimetallic PtxAuy@Ag nanoparticles with varying Pt/Au ratios were prepared via a seed-mediated growth process, in which Ag nanoparticles were employed as sacrificial seeds, and further evaluated as electrocatalysts for the selective oxidation of glycerol. The structures of the as-prepared PtxAuy@Ag nanoparticles were characterized by transmission electron microscopy, electron energy loss spectroscopy and UV–vis absorption spectroscopy. The electrocatalytic activity of the PtxAuy@Ag nanoparticles was extensively evaluated by various electrochemical methods including cyclic voltammetry, linear sweep voltammetry, and chronoamperometric measurements. The PtxAuy@Ag catalysts exhibit superior activity in alkaline solutions relative to acidic solutions. In acidic solutions, the Pt6Au4@Ag catalyst shows the highest current density of 0.67 mA cm−2, which is 2.6 times that of the Pt/C catalyst. In alkaline solutions, the Pt4Au6@Ag has the highest current density of 3.1 mA cm−2, which is 4.7 times that of the Pt/C catalyst. The products of glycerol oxidation over the catalysts at potentials of 0.5, 0.7, 0.9, 1.1 and 1.3 V were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Nine products including oxalate acid, tartronic acid, glyoxylic acid, glyceric acid, glyceraldehyde, glycolic acid, lactic acid, dihydroxyacetone (DHA), and formic acid were detected. HPLC results show that the PtxAuy@Ag catalysts tend to yield more C3 products. Notably, among the catalysts, the Pt4Au6@Ag yields the largest DHA selectivity of 77.1% at a potential of 1.1 V. The remarkable selectivity of the C3 products can be ascribed to the dominant Pt (111) facets in the PtxAuy@Ag catalysts and the synergistic effects of Pt and Au/Ag atoms.
Phase transformation in anisotropic nanocrystals is critical for enhanced surface properties of bimetallic catalysts. In this work, we report a series of phase transformed PtFe nanocomposites as catalysts for facile oxidation of glycerol to value-added tartronic acid at mild operating conditions. The lattice mismatch between Pt and Fe intrinsically drives structure reconstruction from face centered cubic (fcc) to ordered and lattice distorted face centered tetragonal (fct) phase. Surface characterization reveals that there exists an interdiffusion of Pt and Fe during phase transformation and a downward shift of binding energy for Pt species. Such transformation induces the formation of strained PtFe nanocomposites and enhanced structural coherence leading to 3-fold enhancement in catalytic activity for one-pot glycerol oxidation to tartronic acid compared with the fcc structure.
The syntheses, conformational studies, and investigations on the estrogen receptor binding of [R/S-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine]platinum(II) complexes (1-PtL2, 2L = leaving groups) are described. A Strecker synthesis using the 2,6-dichloro-4-methoxybenzaldehyde, NaCN, and NH4Cl afforded the cyanoamine 1b, which was subsequently reduced with LiAlH4 to give the R/S-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-methoxyphenyl)ethylenediamine 1a. Ether cleavage with BBr3 yielded R/S-1-(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine 1 which was coordinated to platinum(II) by use of K2PtCl4 (1-PtCl2) and K2PtI4 (1-PtI2), respectively. Reaction of 1-PtI2 with Ag2SO4 and coordination of tartronic acid led to the [R/S-1-(2,6-dichloro-4- hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine][hydroxymalonato]platinum(II) complex (1-Pt(MalOH)). The spatial structure of 1 and its complexes was evaluated by spectroscopic and molecular modeling methods. In solution the complexes adopt a structure very similar to estradiol. However, the in vitro and in vivo tests for the compounds indicated neither affinity to the estrogen receptor nor estrogenic properties.
The preparation of 2, 2-dihydroxycyclohexylidene acetic acid lactone (Ⅳ) as a starting material for the syntheses of 3, 4-cis-triene compounds of the vitamin D type has been studied.Only α-carbethoxy-2-hydroxycyclohexen-(2)-ylidene acetic acid lactone [Ⅷ, m. p.110-111°, λ?? 296 mμ (e18,600)] was obtained by the treatment of the diethyl 2-ketocyclohexyltartronate (Ⅵ) with acetyl chloride. The structure of Ⅷ was substantiated by results from the decarboxylation and the ozonization of its free acid, α-carboxy-2-hydroxycyclohexen-(2)-ylidene acetic acid lactone [Ⅸ, m. p. 152-153°(decomp.),λ?? 285 mμ(e 13,600)]. Ⅸ yields 2-hydroxycyclohexen-(2)-ylidene acetic acid lactone [Ⅻ, b. p. 85-86°/0.15 mm, n_D~17 1.5592,λ?? 274 mμ (e 12,800)] on pyrolysis at 180°, and glutaric acid together with succinic acid on oxidative ozonization.Ⅵ was saponified to give 2-ketocyclohexyltartronic acid (XIII, m. p.144-145°).The reaction of XIII with hydrogen bromide in glacial acetic acid is quite complicated.It yields 2-ketocyclohexene-(6) acetic acid [XV, m. p. 99-100 , λ?? 240 mμ(e 8,650)], o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid [XVII, m. p, 146-147°, λ?? 275 mμ(e 2,250), λ?? 238, 291 mμ(e 9,120, 3,900)], Ⅻ, the lactone of acid XVII (XVI), and other two unknown substances. XII and XVI were obtained as a mixture,the nature of which has been revealed by the analysis of UV-absorption spectra and the preparation of derivatives like N-benzyl-??-hydroxy-phenylacetamide [XVIII, m.p. 111.5-112.5? ?? 275 m?? (?? 1,390)] and ??-hydroxyphenylacetic phenylhydrazide [XIX,m.p. 181.5-182.5? ?? 276 m?? (?? 4,190)].Pyrolysis of XIII at 140?was successful. From the product there were isolated IV [m.p. 85.5-86.5? ?? 217 m?? (?? 9,790), ?? 249 m??(?? 3,730)] and its isomer,trans-2-ketocyclohexylidene acetic acid [XXI, m.p. 120-121.5? ?? 251 m?? (?? 5,650),?? 251 m?? (?? 6,980)]. The structures of IV and XXI were established by UV-spectral analysis, the preparation of some characteristic derivatives and the ozonization deg-radation. In case of IV, its structure has been further confirmed by its conversion into XII.
Au and AuPd nanoparticles supported on MgO and Al2O3 supports were employed for the selective aqueous phase oxidation of glycerol under basic conditions. Catalysts were prepared by sol-immobilisation without the addition of a stabilizing agent such as polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), which is generally added to stabilize the noble metal sol prior to immobilisation on. The obtained materials prepared with and without stabilizing agent were active for glycerol oxidation and showed similar catalytic performances - implying that the stabilizing polymer is not required to obtain active materials. Depending on the support used, it was possible to tailor the selectivity towards desired oxidation products by using catalysts prepared with or without stabilizing agent. PVA-free Au/ Al2O3 exhibited a remarkably high selectivity towards tartronic acid (40% at 97% conversion), which was not observed for the analogous sample prepared with PVA. Selective glycerol oxidation performed under base-free conditions over AuPd/MgO catalysts also corroborated the previous results that the presence of a stabilizing polymer is not required to prepare active catalysts by sol-immobilisation. Thus, a facile way is presented herein to circumvent the inherent drawbacks encountered by the use of polymer stabilizers during catalyst preparation and the experimental results in fact suggest that the presence of the polymer stabilisers can affect the reaction pathways and control selectivity.
We present here a joint theoretical and experimental study on the oxidation reactivity of glycerol catalysed by chemically pure small Au clusters in the absence and presence of H2O2. From high-resolution mass spectrometry, fruitful products of glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid and glycolic acid are observed pertaining to the successive Jones oxidation process associated with C-O and C-H bond activation. We then fully demonstrate the reaction pathways on the basis of a complementary-active-sites mechanism, revealing the favourable dehydration of glycerol followed by oxidation to form glyceraldehyde and carboxylic acids in the presence of small Au clusters and H2O2. It is found that the Aun/H2O2 system undertakes a heterolytic mechanism by firstly transferring an O-atom from H2O2 to the Au cluster forming an active intermediate, on which hydride abstraction and subsequent oxygen rebound become thermodynamically possible, promoting the C-H insertion reaction and further oxidation of aldehyde to carboxylic acids.
N-Doped mesoporous carbons (NMCs) with extra framework magnesium were prepared by a one-pot method and used as supports for Pt catalysts. The surface basicity of NMC improved in the presence of extra framework magnesium (e.g., –Ph–O–Mg), meanwhile, the electron density of Pt was enriched by the electron transfer from graphitic N in NMC to Pt. As a result, the catalytic activity of the supported Pt catalyst was improved to be able to selectively oxidize glycerol (GLY) to tartronic acid (TA) under base-free conditions.
GLY is an unavoidable by-product of the biodiesel process, and with every 9 kg of biodiesel produced, about 1 kg of GLY is left behind. So, to convert GLY into a high-value chemical is of great importance for the biodiesel industry, and it represents a great challenge [1] [2] [3] [4] . Among the various valuable conversions of GLY, in the context of atom economy, the oxidation of GLY could be more economical. However, the oxidation of GLY leads to a diverse reaction pathway (see Scheme 1) , and the selectivity is difficult to control. The oxidation products of GLY, such as 1,3-dihydroxyacetone (DHA), glyceraldehyde (GLAD), glyceric acid (GLYAC), hydroxypyruvic acid (HYPAC), Glycolic acid (GA), tartronic acid (TARAC), mesooxalic acid (MESAC), etc., often distribute wildly [5, 6] . Therefore, there is an urgent need to design new, effective, heterogeneous catalysts for controlling the chemoselective orientation of GLY oxidation.
A simple two-step approach to methyltartronic acid (2-hydroxy-2-methylpropanedioic acid, 3) from methacrylic acid (1) via α-methylglyceric acid (2) is described. It is based on the successive use of hydrogen peroxide and oxygen as oxidants in the same aqueous medium, in combination with tungstic acid and palladium on carbon as catalysts, respectively
Of 13 compounds tested, 11 inhibited malic enzyme activity in Mucor circinelloides, to some degree, at 5 mM. Four of these inhibitors (tartronic acid, morin, catechin and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were studied further. Tartronic acid, morin and catechin were competitive inhibitors of malic enzyme (with respect to malate), with apparent Ki values of 0.04 mM, 5 μM and 0.6 mM, respectively. 2,5-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was a non-competitive inhibitor, with respect to malate, and had an apparent Ki value of 0.8 mM. Morin and tartronic acid did not inhibit any other NADPH-generating enzyme studied, although both inhibited malate dehydrogenase. The inhibitory actions of catechin and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid were less specific. All four compounds inhibited malic enzyme, to some extent, when included in the culture medium. This inhibition was not as great as in vitro however and was insufficient to have an effect on lipid metabolism in M. circinelloides.
BACKGROUND/AIMS ::: by reducing the number of ATP molecules produced via aerobic glycolysis, the inhibition of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) should hinder the growth of neoplastic cells without damaging the normal cells which do not rely on this metabolic pathway for their energetic needs. Here, we studied the effect of oxamic and tartronic acids, 2 inhibitors of LDH, on aerobic glycolysis and cell replication of HepG2 and PLC/PRF/5 cells, 2 lines from human hepatocellular carcinomas. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: aerobic glycolysis was measured by calculating the amounts of lactic acid formed. The effect on replication was assessed by culturing the cells in both standard conditions and glucose-deprived medium, which was used to shut down aerobic glycolysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: the oxamic and tartronic acids inhibited aerobic glycolysis, impaired the growth of both cell lines and also induced an increased expression of p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis, a signal of cell death. A strong impairment of cell replication by oxamic acid was only found when the cells were cultured in the presence of glucose, indicating that it was for the most part owing to inhibition of aerobic glycolysis. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: inhibition of aerobic glycolysis achieved by blocking LDH could be useful in the treatment of human hepatocellular carcinomas. Without interfering with glucose metabolism in normal cells, it could hinder cell growth by itself and could also enhance the chemotherapeutic index of associated anticancer agents by decreasing the levels of ATP selectively in neoplastic cells.
4-Alkylpyrazolidine-3,s-diones with phenyl or 3-phenyl-1H-1,2,4- triazol-5-yl substituents on N 1 or N 2 were oxidized with oxygen or hydrogen peroxide in acidic, basic or neutral media. Conditions under which 4-hydroxypyrazolidinediones and monohydrazides of malonic or tartronic acids are formed were noted.
Abstract Electrocatalytic oxidation of glycerol for cogenerating electricity and higher-valued chemicals on a Pt/C anode catalyst (2.4 nm) in an anion-exchange membrane fuel cell (AEMFC) was investigated. The peak power density of an anion-exchange membrane – direct glycerol fuel cell (AEM-DGFC) with 1.0 mgPt cm−2 anode and non-PGM catalyst cathode can reach 124.5 mW cm−2 at 80 °C and 58.6 mW cm−2 at 50 °C, while the highest selectivity of C3 acids (glyceric acid + tartronic acid) can reach 91%. The study found that higher pH reaction media could enhance fuel cell output power density (electricity generation) and selectivity of C3 acids, while lower glycerol concentration could improve the selectivity of deeper-oxidized products (mesoxalic acid and oxalic acid). The fuel cell reactor with the Pt/C anode catalyst demonstrated an excellent reusability, and successfully obtained tartronic acid with a selectivity of 50% and mesoxalic acid with a selectivity of 7%, which are high compared to heterogeneous catalytic glycerol oxidation in batch reactors. It is found that the anode overpotential can regulate the oxidation product distribution, and that higher anode overpotentials favor C C bond breaking, thus lowering the C3 acids selectivity. The reaction sequence of glycerol electro-oxidation detected in an electrolysis half cell with an on-line sample collection and off-line HPLC analysis agrees with the results obtained from single fuel cell tests. However, inconsistencies between the two systems still exist and are possibly due to different reaction environments, such as electrode structure, glycerol:catalyst ratio, and residence time of reactants.
1. Oxidation ot tartronic acid has been studied and it has been shown that the oxidation of glycerol by ceric sulphate does not proceed via this acid by was presumed by earlier workers. 2. It has been shown that the oxidation of formic acid by pure ceric sulphate is negligible, but using chromium sulphate as catalyst, formic acid can be quantitatively oxidized. 3. Oxidation of glycol and glycerol can be carried out quantitatively either to the -formic acid stage or completely to carbon dioxide and water. A combination of the above provides a method for the estimation of the two compounds when present together in a mixture.
D-Galacturonic acid was oxidized with decreasing ease, and in the approximate order shown, by excess of the following agents: sodium chlorite near pH 2.8 and 75°; sodium hypochlorite at pH 10–11 and 25°; chlorine dioxide, pH 1.3 or 5 at 75°; chlorine near 0° and pH 5 (slight); and hydrogen peroxide at pH 10–11 and 25° (negligible). Some uronic acid was always recovered unchanged, even from conditions that would have oxidized glucose quantitatively to gluconic acid. The only other products were mucic acid, together with DL-tartaric acid and tartronic acid presumably derived therefrom. Chlorine dioxide, however, never produced tartronic acid. Methyl-α-D-galacturonoside methyl ester yielded some galacturonic acid when exposed to alkaline hypochlorite or peroxide, and this cleavage of the glycosidic group was tentatively attributed to the oxidants rather than to the alkalinity of the systems.Anhydrous bromine degraded the silver salt of methyl-α-D-galacturonoside in poor yield to a syrup which was probably L-...
Tartronic acid forms the title salt, C3H5N2+·C3H3O5−, with imidazole. Hydro­gen bonds in the crystal link the anions, forming a hydrogen-bonded layer. The cations cross-link the layers, leading to a three-dimensional hydrogen-bonded network.
Here, we report the development of catalysts comprising highly dispersed Au on an alumina (Al2O3) support for the oxidation of glycerol to high-value carboxylic acids in a liquid-phase flow reactor. The catalysts were prepared by means of a deposition-precipitation method. To ensure that the catalysts could be used for long-term catalytic conversions in a liquid-phase flow reactor, we chose an alumina support with high temperature stability and a particle size (50-200 μm) large enough to prevent leakage of the catalyst from the reactor. One of the five catalysts had a high catalytic activity for the conversion of glycerol to the high-value carboxylic acids, glyceric acid and tartronic acid (conversion of glycerol >70%), and the catalyst retained its catalytic activity over long-term use (up to 1770 min). Pretreatment of the catalyst with fructose, a mild reductant, increased the activity of the catalyst. Scanning transmission electron microscopy revealed three Au species highly dispersed on the surface of the alumina support-Au nanoparticles (mode = 7.5-10 nm), Au clusters (1-2 nm), and atomic Au.
Abstract Capillary gas—liquid chromatography—mass spectrometry was used to identify products from the oxidative and non-oxidative alkaline degradation of L -ascorbic acid. Over 50 compounds were detected, of which 32 carboxylic acids could be identified. In the presence of oxygen, oxalic, glyceric, L -threonic, pentulosonic, L -xylonic, L -lyxonic, and C-( L - threo -1,2,3-trihydroxypropyl)tartronic acids were the main products. Their formation routes via L - threo -2,3-hexodiulosonic (“diketogulonic”) acid (1) are outlined. It is believed that the conversion of 1 to urinary organic acids in man is mainly non-enzymic. The presence of some of the degradation products in human urine is expected, even if not yet proved.
Abstract The liquid-phase oxidation of glycerol has been studied on gold nanoparticles supported on different carbon materials: activated carbon (AC), graphite (G) and carbon ribbon-type nanofibers (CNF-R). Catalysts were prepared by two different methods: impregnation (-IMP) and gold-sol (-SGT). The influence of the operating conditions (e.g. pressure, temperature, NaOH/glycerol molar ratio and glycerol/Au molar ratio) on the catalytic activity and product selectivity was studied in detail. The oxygen pressure was found to have a very small influence on the reaction rates, with the reaction being zero order with respect to oxygen. The selectivity to glyceric acid was significantly enhanced on increasing both the oxygen pressure and reaction temperature, which simultaneously led to a decrease in both glycolic and tartronic acid selectivities. Glycerol conversion and glyceric acid selectivity increased on increasing the NaOH/glycerol molar ratio in the range from 1 to 2. At higher values of this molar ratio, these two parameters remained approximately constant. A linear correlation was observed between glycerol conversion and the amount of catalyst (up to 0.5 g) and this indicates that the reaction was kinetically controlled. However, along with the increase in the catalytic activity with the amount of catalyst, a substantial decrease in the selectivity to glyceric acid was also observed. Finally, a kinetic model to describe the reaction mechanism was proposed and good agreement between the experimental and predicted values was achieved.
Abstract Solutions of ribose, glucose, and sucrose in water and phosphate buffer were treated with non-thermal plasma generated by using a dielectric barrier discharge ( DBD) device and the oxidation products were characterized by 1 H NMR and GC–MS. Our results demonstrate that these sugars are decomposed to formic acid, glycolic acid, glyceric acid, tartronic acid, tartaric acid, acetic acid, and oxalic acid after direct exposure to DBD plasma. The concentrations of these compounds are time-dependent with plasma treatment. The decomposition mechanisms of these sugars under the DBD plasma are also proposed in this study.
Abstract Glycerol is a by-product produced from biodiesel, fatty acid, soap and bioethanol industries. Today, the value of glycerol is decreasing in the global market due to glycerol surplus, which primarily resulted from the speedy expansion of biodiesel producers around the world. Numerous studies have proposed ways of managing and treating glycerol, as well as converting it into value-added compounds. The electrochemical conversion method is preferred for this transformation due to its simplicity and hence, it is discussed in detail. Additionally, the factors that could affect the process mechanisms and products distribution in the electrochemical process, including electrodes materials, pH of electrolyte, applied potential, current density, temperature and additives are also thoroughly explained. Value-added compounds that can be produced from the electrochemical conversion of glycerol include glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone, glycolic acid, glyceric acid, lactic acid, 1,2-propanediol, 1,3-propanediol, tartronic acid and mesoxalic acid. These compounds are found to have broad applications in cosmetics, pharmaceutical, food and polymer industries are also described. This review will be devoted to a comprehensive overview of the current scenario in the glycerol electrochemical conversion, the factors affecting the mechanism pathways, reaction rates, product selectivity and yield. Possible outcomes obtained from the process and their benefits to the industries are discussed. The utilization of solid acid catalysts as additives for future studies is also suggested.
Thermogravimetric analyses (TGA) were carried out using a TGA/QMS STA 409 CD/403/5/G SKIMMER model (Netzsch). The experimental procedure consisted of weighing approximately 20 mg of each sample in alumina crucibles using a heating rate of 5 °C min -1 , from ca. 30 to 900 °C, under air (N 2 /O 2 ) flow rate of 50 mL min -1 . HPLC analyses were performed using a Shimadzu LC20AT with diode array detector (DAD) and detection wavelength was set at 210 nm. Chromatographic separation was performed with an AMINEX HPX-87H column (300 × 7.8 mm) with H 2 SO 4 solution as the mobile phase (3 mmol L -1 ) with flow rate of 0.4 mL min -1 , in an isocratic mode at 60 °C. The injection volume was fixed at 20 μL for all samples. The HPLC method was based on previously published method. 40 The samples S1-gly and S2-gly were washed with 50 mL mobile phase and centrifuged for 7 min at 7500 rpm and then their supernatant were injected onto HPLC system. Glyceraldehyde (2,3-dihydroxypropanal), glyceric acid (2,3-dihydroxypropanoic acid), dihydroxyacetone (1,3-dihydroxypropan-2-one), tartronic acid (2-hydroxypropanedioic acid) and glycolic acid (2-hydroxyethanoic acid) were obtained from SigmaAldrich and used as standards. In addition, the oxalic acid (ethanedioic acid) and formic acid (methanoic acid) were also used as chemical standards and were purchased from Dinâmica. The chromatograms of the standards are shown in Figure S8 (SI section). 
The side products formed in the TEMPO-mediated oxidation of glucose to glucaric acid were determined by GC. Next to glucaric acid, gluconic acid, the intermediate in the oxidation, the degradation products, oxalic acid, tartronic acid, meso- (erythraric) and DL-threaric (tartaric) acid were detected. Chiral GC determined the DL-tartaric acid to be non-racemic mixtures of L- and D-tartaric acids, with inverse D/L-ratios depending on the oxidation of D- or L-glucose. The origin of all degradation products is rationalized. This study details a fast screening method to optimize the reaction conditions toward minimal degradation.
Abstract The carbon supported Au nanoparticles (Au-NPs) catalyst with a small average size (3.5 nm) and narrow size distribution (2–6 nm) was synthesized by a solution phase-based nanocapsule method. The reactivity of glycerol oxidation on Au/C is much higher than that of methanol and ethylene glycol oxidations in alkaline electrolyte. The anion-exchange membrane-direct glycerol fuel cell (AEM-DGFC) with the Au/C anode catalyst and a Fe-based cathode catalyst shows high performances with both high-purity glycerol and crude glycerol fuel: the open circuit voltages (OCVs) are 0.67 and 0.66 V, and peak power densities are 57.9 and 30.7 mW cm−2 at 80 °C, respectively. Fed with crude glycerol, the Au/C anode catalyst-based AEM-DGFC also demonstrates high performance stability at 80 °C. The product analysis shows that the electrooxidation of glycerol on the Au/C anode catalyst in AEM-DGFCs favors production of deeper-oxidized chemicals: tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid and oxalic acid, which leads to higher fuel cell's Faradic efficiency.
Glycerol is a potentially valuable by-product from the manufacture of biodiesel. Due to its high functionalisation, can be used as an important precursor for the fine chemicals industry [1] [2] [3] . The selective oxidation of glycerol has been extensively studied as a means of converting glycerol to potentially valuable products such as glyceric acid, tartronic acid and dihydroxyacetone [4, 5] . Supported Au catalysts have been shown to be very active for glycerol oxidation to Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (https ://doi.org/10.1007/s1056 2-019-02952 -y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
Abstract An operational electrolyte system was developed for the isotachophoretic separation of fifteen rare-earth elements (yttrium and lanthanides except for Pm) by adding a helping complexing agent to an α-hydroxyisobutyric acid (HIBA) electrolyte system. As a result of testing several helping agents such as malonic acid, malic acid, tartronic acid and glycolic acid, the optimized leading electrolyte was a 20-m M ammonia solution containing 2 m M malonic acid and 7.5 m M HIBA (pH 4.8, 2-ethylbutyric acid buffer). The terminator was a 20-m M carnitine hydrochloride. According to the stability constants of rare-earth–malonate complexes evaluated by isotachophoretic method, the successful separation was due to the smaller stability constants of Y–malonate complexes compared with those of the medium lanthanide elements to be separated.
Abstract Isoprothiolane (IPT) was one of the most commonly used pesticides around the world. It was reported to be the highest concentration and frequency of detection of 13 most commonly used pesticides in Mekong Delta recently. The oxidation degradation kinetic of ozone and chlorine with IPT and the identification of the degradation products was investigated in this research. The results showed that both ozone and chlorine oxidized IPT rapidly under typical water treatment condition, and that both reactions followed second order reaction kinetics. The ozone reaction rates exhibited no pH dependence with the rate constant of 247.1 (±11.0) M−1s−1 at 25 °C, whereas chlorine reaction rates increased dramatically with decreasing pH. The rate constant for hypochloric acid was 73.3 (±3.1) M−1s−1 at 25 °C, while the reaction of hypochlorite was negligible. The degradation products by chlorine and ozone were identified by LC-MS/MS and the reaction pathways were proposed. The thioether and the carbon-carbon double bond in IPT were the reactive sites during chlorine and ozone oxidation. The thioether group was oxidized into sulfoxide and further sulfone group, and the carbon-carbon double bone were cleaved to form diisopropyl ester of malonic acid, diisopropyl ester of tartronic acid and diisopropyl ester of ketomalonic acid monohydrate. Compared to ozone reaction, it was more complicated for chlorine reaction, which yielded chlorine substituted, hydroxylated and dithiolane ring-opening products.
There is a major limitation preventing the use of bio-fuels as they are currently not economically viable when compared to fossil fuels. To make bio-fuels more economically ::: attractive, new chemical processes for converting waste by-products into a valuable commodity are necessary. One of the main by-products from the production of bio-fuels is glycerol. This thesis investigates the oxidation of glycerol with the aim of selectively producing lactic acid. ::: Glycerol oxidation is a relatively complex reaction with two potential pathways leading to a variety of products. The oxidation pathway leads to the C3 products glyceric acid and tartronic acid, with further oxidation leading to C2 and C1 products. The dehydration pathway leads to lactic acid, through a currently unknown mechanism. The reaction scheme sets out two challenges to solve; what conditions are optimal for a high yield of lactic acid and what is the ::: mechanism. When observing the two challenges, one begets the other. By characterising what conditions are optimal for lactic acid production, it would then be plausible that an experiment could be designed to confirm the mechanism of lactic acid formation. ::: Using a standard 1 wt% AuPt/TiO2 catalyst, an investigation into the reaction conditions was conducted and it was found that the conditions had a significant effect on the product ::: distribution. A progressive elimination was designed so as to progressively find the optimal conditions for the formation of lactic acid. The conditions mapped were; temperature, O2 pressure, base substrate ratio, metal substrate ratio and stabilising agent used to produce the ::: catalyst. Temperature was found to increase selectivity to lactic acid as it was increased. ::: Increasing the O2 pressure showed an increase in lactic acid selectivity up to 3 bar, at which point there was an increase in C-C scission products. By increasing the base ratio, lactic acid selectivity increased dramatically, providing an insight that would later be used to help confirm the mechanism. Higher metal substrate ratio was found to increase the C-C scission products formed. Four types of stabilising agent were used to observe the effect of stability and activity, with PVA providing a balance between stability and selectivity. The parameter map led to a series of conditions that produced a yield of 80 % lactic acid. ::: Using the conditions found from the parameter mapping study, an experiment was designed to attempt to confirm the mechanism of formation for lactic acid. Two current theories ::: that lactic acid formation proceeds either via a benzylic rearrangement or a Cannizzaro reaction, provided an insight as to how this would be achieved, as the position of the carbon environments in lactic acid would change dependent on the mechanism followed. Through a 13C labelling study, ::: NMR spectroscopy was used to show that there was no net movement of the carbon environments during the mechanism, discounting the benzylic rearrangement. Through a logical ::: discussion, the Cannizzaro reaction was also discounted as technically this is an intermolecular hydride shift, with the mechanism being confirmed to be an intramolecular hydride shift. ::: Supercritically prepared perovskite supports were used to see if the lactic acid yield could be increased further through the change of the B site cation. Contrary to initial belief, LaMnO3 heavily favoured the oxidation pathway at the same conditions the standard AuPt/TiO2 ::: produced a high yield to lactic acid. This was found to correlate with the oxygen adsorption to a clean lattice structure, as perovskites with high oxygen adsorption favoured the oxidation pathway whilst low oxygen adsorption favoured the dehydration pathway. LaCrO3 was found to ::: produce a yield of up to 86 % lactic acid under the optimal conditions outlined in the parameter mapping study. The selective control of reaction products could ultimately lead to more economically viable bio-fuel production.
Abstract Platinum metal catalysts, promoted or not with bismuth, have been designed to favour oxidation of either the primary or the secondary alcohol functions of glycerol in aqueous solution. Thus, on palladium catalyst oxidation of the primary function of glycerol predominates and glyceric acid is the chief product (70% yield at 90% conversion, pH=11) whereas on bismuth-promoted platinum catalyst oxidation of the secondary function prevails to give dihydroxyacetone (37% yield at 75% conversion, pH=2). Subsequent oxidation of glyceric acid on platinum gives the tartronate (61% yield at 94% conversion, pH=10–11); improved yields were obtained with the bismuth-promoted catalyst (83% yield at 90% conversion, pH=10–11). On bismuth-promoted platinum oxidation of glyceric acid gives hydroxypyruvic acid as the main product (64% yield at 75% conversion, pH=3–4) and under the same conditions tartronic acid is oxidised to mesoxalic acid (29% yield at 53% conversion, pH=1.5) bismuth adatoms have two roles: they prevent over-oxidation by strongly adsorbed acids and orientate the selectivity towards oxidation of the secondary alcohol function.
Highly oxygenated molecules (HOMs) are a class of compounds associated with secondary organic aerosols exhibiting high oxygen to carbon (O:C) ratios and often originating from the oxidation of biogenic compounds. Here, the photooxidation and ozonolysis of isoprene were examined under a range of conditions to identify HOM tracers for aged isoprene aerosol. The HOM tracers were identified as silylated derivatives by gas chromatography–mass spectrometry and by detecting their parent compounds by liquid chromatography–high resolution mass spectrometry. In addition to the previously observed methyltetrols and 2-methylglyceric acid, seven tracer compounds were identified, including 2-methyltartronic acid (MTtA), 2-methylerythronic acid (2MeTrA), 3-methylerythronic acid (3MeTrA), 2-methylthreonic acid (2MTrA), 3-methylthreonic acid (3MTrA), erythro-methyltartaric acid (e-MTA), and threo-methyltartaric acid (t-MTA). The molecular structures were confirmed with authentic standards synthesized in the laboratory. Th...
Five caffeic acid derivatives; methyl ester of caffeoylglycolic acid (1), dimethyl ester of caffeoyltartaric acid (2), dimethyl ester of caffeoyltartronic acid (3), monomethyl ester of caffeoyltartronic acid (4), methyl ester of caffeic acid (5), and some other secondary metabolites including; quercetin, quercetin 3-O-β-D-glucuronide methyl ester, kaempferol, 3,5,7,4′-O-tetramethylkaempferol, β-sitosterol glucoside, 2α-hydroxyursolic acid and 2,24-dihydroxyursolic acid, have been isolated and characterized. All the isolated compounds were characterized with the help of NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. Structure of compound3 was also confirmed by a single X-ray crystallographic technique. Isolates were evaluated for antioxidant activities and most of the tested compounds were found to be potent in DPPH free radical scavenging (IC50 = 4.56–14.17 μg/mL) and superoxide anion scavenging (IC50= 0.58–7.39 μg/mL) assays.
Several of the free radicals formed by X-irradiation or y-irradiation of single crystals of a number of aliphatic dicarboxyl acids and amino acids have been analyzed in recent years. In most of these compounds the analyzed spectrum was found to be due to the breaking of a C-H bond with the resulting loss of the H atom (1-7). In a few cases a free radical due to the breaking of a C-C bond with the resulting loss of a carboxyl group was detected (8, 9). We have evidence in tartronic acid monohydrate of a free radical formed by the breaking of a C-C bond with the loss of a carboxyl group. The spin density is primarily localized on the carbon, with the odd electron in a 2pr orbital with coupling to the a-hydrogen and a weaker coupling to the hydroxyl hydrogen. METHOD Materials Single crystals of tartronic acid monohydrate, HOCH(COOH)2 H20, obtained from General Biochemicals, were grown from aqueous solution by slow evaporation. The deuterated powder was obtained by simple isotopic exchange in a solution of tartronic acid in 99.7 % D20, to give DOCH(COOD)2 D20. The D20 was vacuumevaporated at room temperature from the solution, the evaporation being completed in about 3 hours. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were recorded before and after deuteration to check the percentage of isotopic substitution. The total number of hydrogen atoms in the sample is proportional to
RATIONALE ::: The identification of hydroxy- and keto-dicarboxylic acids (diacids) in remote marine aerosol samples is important for a better understanding of the composition of organic particulate matter, as this chemical composition is essential for predicting the effects on climate, air quality, and human health. Molecular characterization of these compounds provides insights into sources and formation pathways of organic aerosols. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The method of chemical derivatization followed by gas chromatography-flame ionization detection (GC-FID), gas chromatography/quadruple mass spectrometry (GC/QMS) and gas chromatography/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC/TOFMS) was used to identify hydroxy- and keto-diacids in remote marine aerosols. Atmospheric samples were collected at Chichijima Island in the western North Pacific and the diacids and related compounds were extracted with organic-free ultrapure water. A two-step derivatization technique was employed, using 14% BF3 /n-butanol for the butylation of carboxyl groups and acidic ketones followed by N,O-bis(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide (BSTFA) for the trimethylsilylation of hydroxyl groups. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Several new peaks were detected in the gas chromatogram after trimethylsilylation of the dibutyl ester fraction. Based on mass spectral interpretation with authentic standards, we successfully identified and quantified a homologous series of hydroxydiacids, including tartaric and oxaloacetic acids. In addition, transformation of oxaloacetic acid into its enol form was elucidated. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Utilizing GC-FID, GC/QMS and GC/TOFMS, hydroxy- and keto-diacids were identified in the remote marine aerosols. A complete structural characterization was achieved with extensive mass spectral analysis. Molecular distributions of hydroxydiacids generally showed the predominance of malic acid followed by tartronic acid. We consider that these hydroxydiacids are important intermediates in the atmospheric oxidation of organic aerosols to result in smaller diacids. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Several new peaks were detected in the gas chromatogram after 44 trimethylsilylation of the dibutyl ester fraction. Based on mass spectral interpretation with 45 authentic standards, we successfully identified and quantified a homologous series of 46 hydroxydiacids, including tartaric and oxaloacetic acids. In addition, transformation of 47 oxaloacetic acid into its enol form was elucidated. 48 CONCLUSIONS: Utilizing GC-FID, GC/QMS and GC/TOFMS, hydroxy-and keto-49 diacids were identified in the remote marine aerosols. A complete structural 50 characterization was achieved with extensive mass spectral analysis. Molecular 51 distributions of hydroxydiacids generally showed the predominance of malic acid 52 followed by tartronic acid. We consider that these hydroxydiacids are important 53 intermediates in the atmospheric oxidation of organic aerosols to result in smaller diacids. 54
Structure-controlled well-dispersed Au–Pd nanoparticles were successfully stabilized in a commercial ion-exchange resin. The so-obtained Au–Pd nanoparticles were tested in liquid phase glycerol partial oxidation in the presence of molecular oxygen. They exhibited better catalytic performances than homologous monometallic Au or Pd catalysts. The optimized bimetallic catalyst trapped in the matrix of the ion-exchange resin was very stable with time on stream (>4000 min) using a fixed bed flow type reactor, with a conversion of ca. 50% and stable selectivities towards glyceric and tartronic acids, of ca. 60% and 30%, respectively. The active phase originated from the presence of nanometric bimetallic nanoparticles (1.0–3.0 nm) characterized by STEM analysis.
This is a comparative study of photolytic degradation under exposure to UV254 nm and solar-simulator irradiation of a mixture of eight equally concentrated relevant micropollutants in the presence of H2O2 and Fe(II) in ultrapure water, Lake Geneva water, and effluent from a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). The electron-spin resonance (ESR) experiments point to a low efficiency of singlet oxygen formation by the mixture of micropollutants. This finding corroborates with the chemical stability of the micropollutants under UVC irradiation (in decreasing order: gabapentin, metformin, metoprolol, atenolol, clarithromycin, primidone, methylbenzotriazole, and benzotriazole). The oxidation rate increased in the presence of low-concentration H2O2 and Fe(II), except for metformin and gabapentin. Gabapentin and metformin were the most persistent compounds, less than 24% were removed after 60 minutes of UV254/H2O2/Fe(II) treatment. The low micropollutant removal rates were observed in WWTP effluent and lake water, and using sunlight simulation. Guanylurea, phenol, oxalic acid, tartronic acid, glycolic acid, oxamic acid, and maleic acid, could also be detected as fragmental oxidation products. Furthermore, up to 300 µg/L of nitrate and ammonia were identified as final degradation products. Ecotoxicological tests showed that the degradation products are more toxic for algae Chlamydomonas reinhardtii than the parent compounds themselves.
2 However, the current production rate already surpasses their capacities. Brazil is the third largest global producer of biodiesel (46,058 barrels per day in 2011), with exponential growth since 2005. 3 Moreover, the central-west region alone supported half this production. 4 One alternative proposed to valorize the glycerol molecule is oxidation, giving rise to more oxygenated compounds with greater added value: tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid, b-hydroxypiruvic acid, dihydroxyacetone, and glycolic acid, among others. 5 The classical processes for obtaining these products involve the use of environmentally unfriendly oxidants such as KMnO 4 , HNO 3 or H 2 CrO 4 . Biological fermentation is another alternative that overcomes the environmental issues. However, the operational conditions need to be strictly controlled and the kinetics of these processes is rather sluggish.
Performance of a Direct Glycerol Fuel Cell using KOH Doped Polybenzimidazole as Electrolyte J. Braz. Chem. Soc. 512 most likely due to an insufficient amount of glycerol accessing the catalytic layer. A glycerol concentration of 2 mol L -1 also reduced cell performance compared to the reference value of 1 mol L -1 , and even more drastic results were evident at a glycerol concentration of 4 mol L -1 . In this latter case, the OCV was much lower, reflecting the deleterious effects of the fuel crossover. Moreover, glycerol possesses a dynamic viscosity of 81.3 cP at 60 °C, whereas in the case of water the corresponding value is 0.4688 cP. Hence, more concentrated glycerol solutions become more viscous. The greater viscosity could limit fuel transport to the catalytic layer. Also, the increase in the glycerol concentration could lead to a poisoning of the anode surface by virtue of the large amounts of this molecule competing with the hydroxyl radicals required for glycerol oxidation. 19, 21 In the case of a fuel concentration of 2 mol L -1 fuel, these phenomena are also occurring, however to a lesser extent since the decrease in the performance is smaller. Finally, changes in the glycerol electroxidation mechanism depending on the glycerol concentration must also be taken into account, as Zhang et al. 20 showed. Higher glycerol concentrations favored the conversion of glycerol to less oxidized C 3 -species, with faster turnover rates compared to lower concentrations. At lower concentrations, more oxidized products (tartronic acid and C 2 species) were produced. Currently, ongoing research is being carried out in order to better understand the oxidation mechanism under actual fuel cell conditions with the support of a liquid chromatograph.
The rapid growth of the biodiesel industry in the last 10 years demands solutions to the glycerol byproduct produced by transesterification of a triglyceride and an alcohol (1 kg per 10 kg of biodiesel). 1 Glycerol has traditionally been absorbed by the pharmaceutical, cosmetic, agro and food industries. 2 However, the current production rate already surpasses their capacities. Brazil is the third largest global producer of biodiesel (46,058 barrels per day in 2011), with exponential growth since 2005. 3 Moreover, the central-west region alone supported half this production. 4 One alternative proposed to valorize the glycerol molecule is oxidation, giving rise to more oxygenated compounds with greater added value: tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid, b-hydroxypiruvic acid, dihydroxyacetone, and glycolic acid, among others. 5 The classical processes for obtaining these products involve the use of environmentally unfriendly oxidants such as KMnO 4 , HNO 3 or H 2 CrO 4 . Biological fermentation is another alternative that overcomes the environmental issues. However, the operational conditions need to be strictly controlled and the kinetics of these processes is rather sluggish. 6, 7 Heterogeneous catalysis is another alternative, showing interesting results with materials such as PtPd, PtAu, PtBi, PtNi, AuPd, PtPdBi. [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] In this case, glycerol is oxidized in the presence of oxygen, with significant activity in alkaline media.
The use of biorenewable feedstocks to produce commodity chemicals and clean fuels as a substitute for the limited fossil fuel reserves is an essential pathway to sustainable development [1, 2] . In this context, the biodiesel industry was booming in the past decades. However, as an unavoidable by-product of biodiesel production, 1 mol GLY is formed during the generation of every 3 mol biodiesel methyl esters. So, the effective use of GLY has attracted much attention in academia and industry. Luckily, as a highly functionalized molecule, GLY can produce various valuable compounds by oxidation, dehydration, hydrogenolysis, esterification, transesterificaiton, polymerization, and so on. Among them, the oxidation conversion is of immense current importance for the synthesis of fine chemicals with high added value such as DHA, glyceric acid, glyceraldehyde, hydroxypyruvic acid, mesooxalic acid and tartronic acid. Particularly, DHA is one of the most valuable products due to its great demand in cosmetics [3, 4] . However, owing to the three hydroxyl groups in GLY, the selective oxidation of GLY to DHA is a crucial dilemma from the point of view of catalyst design.
We investigate the kinetics of bromination of malonic acid, bromomalonic acid, tartronic acid, and ethanetetracarboxylic acid in 1 M sulfuric acid with bromine and hypobromous acid as brominating agents. In all cases the reaction occurs via the enol form of the acid, and the reaction products are brominated species. The possibility of bromide production in the reaction of malonic acid or bromomalonic acid with hypobromous acid can be ruled out. These results are important for the negative feedback loop in the Belousov−Zhabotinsky reaction.
Abstract Au-Pt bimetallic catalysts were supported on different supports, including acidic (TiO 2 and CeO 2 ), basic (MgO, Mg(OH) 2 , (MgCO 3 ) 4 Mg(OH) 2 , ZnO, and CaCO 3 ), and amphoteric (Al 2 O 3 and hydrotalcite) supports with the aim to study the effect of the acid/base properties of supports upon the performance of Au-Pt bimetallic catalysts in glycerol oxidation. The results showed that these properties significantly affected the selectivity of products. The selectivity to glyceraldehyde was inversely proportional to the strength of supports’ basic sites, and the selectivity to tartronic acid (or glycolic acid, or glyoxalic acid) was proportional to the strength of basic sites. In contrast, the selectivity to glyceric acid was neither proportional to the strength of basic sites nor proportional to the strength of acid sites. The doping of another weaker basic site also affected the selectivity to glyceric acid. Furthermore, the role of the acid/base nature of the supports in affecting the products’ distribution is proposed.
In this paper we show that carbon nanofiber supported copper and nickel nanoparticles can selectively transform ethylene glycol and glycerol into value added oxygenates (organic acids) under anaerobic aqueous conditions. During aqueous phase oxidation Cu based catalysts showed a nearly quantitative yield (96% selectivity at 82% conversion) of glycolic acid from ethylene glycol. The reaction was carried out under alkaline conditions at relatively mild temperatures (150–180 °C) and produced H2 as co-product. The high selectivity towards glycolic acid was independent of the temperature. For glycerol oxidation a high selectivity (67% at full conversion) towards lactic acid was observed using Cu with competitive formation of glyceric acid, 1,2-propanediol tartronic acid and formation of H2 as co-product. The activity of Ni was comparable to that of Cu but it was less selective for the formation of desired oxygenates, glycolic acid (31%) and lactic acid (24%), due to the formation of formic acid.
Rapid depletion of fossil fuels makes it necessary to seek replacement of petroleum-based energy sources to lead to a sustainable future [1] . Clean and renewable energy sources are increasingly being used to replace fossil fuels, to end the progression of climate change, and to reduce pollution [2] . Prominent energy devices such as internal combustion engines have low efficiency (<13%) while emitting many harmful pollutants and greenhouse gasses [3] . Glycerol is a non-toxic, non-flammable, and non-volatile biorenewable alcohol fuel obtained as a byproduct of the transesterification reaction that occurs in the production of biodiesel [4] [5] [6] ; as a result, glycerol can today be obtained at relatively lower market prices compared to other alcohol fuels (see Table 1 ). Glycerol can serve as a starting point for production of a series of high-value oxygenated chemicals such as glyceric acid, tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid, and glycolic acid, etc. [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] . Traditional production of these oxygenate compounds is costly, environmentally unfriendly because of stoichiometric oxidation using strong acids [12] , or exhibits slow fermentation processes accompanied by low output yields [13] . A glycerol oxidation reaction (GOR) produces negative Gibbs free energy, so it can be used as a fuel fed at the anode for fuel cells to simultaneously generate electrical power and produce valuable chemicals. Fuel cells, batteries, and electrochemical capacitors are systems considered for alternative energy/power sources. The main disadvantage of rechargeable batteries (mostly lithium-based, e.g., lithium or lithium polymer) is limited energy density [14, 15] . Fuel cell technology, a thrust research area, is an appropriate substitute to rechargeable battery technology due because fuel cells, especially direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs), have been recognized as green energy generators capable of converting renewable sources into electrical power [16] . To meet the world's demand for energy, DAFCs represent a potentially promising alternative energy source to the use of fossil fuels [17, 18] . The thermodynamic efficiency of a DAFC is greater than 90% because energy from the fuel is directly transformed into electrical energy without the constraints of Carnot's theorem [19, 20] . Anion-exchange membrane-direct alcohol fuel cells (AEM-DAFCs) have the great advantage that the kinetics of both anode and cathode reactions can be greatly enhanced by the better mass transfer and lower adsorption of spectator-charged species [17, 18, [21] [22] [23] [24] . The byproducts associated from AEM-DAFCs also appear to produce no negative environmental impact. To more completely explore such alternative fuels, numerous studies have been carried out based on AEMFC platforms using various biorenewable fuels.
Adults of the lubber grasshopper (Romalea guttata) secrete increased amounts of catechol from their defensive glands when fed diets containing only catnip leaves (Nepeta cataria). Model compound bioassays showed that these insects were able to sequester and biomagnify simple phenols, such as catechol and hydroquinone, in their defense gland secretions. Excessive catechol secretions from caffeic acid-fortified diets indicated metabolic pathways exist to perform efficiently more complex biochemical conversions. Reverse-phase HPLC of methanol extracts of catnip revealed only one major caffeoyl-polyphenol as a possible precursor for the observed elevated catechol secretions, when this plant is fed to lubbers. The compound was shown to be caffeoyltartronic acid (CTA). During analysis of CTA by probe-MS or gas chromatography (of its silylated derivative), CTA decomposed by loss of carbon dioxide to form caffeoylglycolic acid (CGA), making identification by these methods ambiguous. Only fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry (FAB-MS, negative mode) gave a true molecular weight. Groundivy (Glecoma hederacea), a relative of catnip, was also shown to contain CTA. The mung bean (Phaseolus radiatus=Vigna radiata), a species totally unrelated to catnip, is the only other reported plant source of CTA. Catnip leaves were found to contain about twice as much CTA as mung bean leaves.
The starch was oxidized with 5.5 base molar equivalents of 0.43 M calcium hypochlorite kept near pH 12 and 20°. The rate of oxidation was consistent with the occurrence of two first-order reactions differing in rate by a factor of 10, the more rapid of which consumed about 4 moles of hypochlorite for each C6H10O5 unit actually oxidized. Oxalic acid (0.2 mole) and perhaps carbonic acid were formed directly, but it was necessary to hydrolyze the product in order to liberate D-glucose (0.4 mole), glyoxylic acid (0.03 mole), D-erythronic acid (0.11 mole), mesotartaric acid (0.02 mole), D-tartaric acid (0.02 mole), L-tartaric acid (0.01 mole), D-glucuronic acid (0.004 mole), and probably tartronic acid .
Higher plants often contain a large number of benzoic and cinnamic acid derivatives with dif ferent physiological effects (Veit and Gumbinger, 1993) and taxonomic significance (Bate-Smith. 1962; M0lgaard and Ravn, 1988; Boucherau et al., 1991; Veit et al., 1992) . This group of chemotaxonomic markers includes naturally occurring hy droxycinnamic acid esters with aliphatic hydroxycarboxylic acids as alcohol moiety such as esters of quinic acid (Moeller and Herrmann, 1983; Adzet and Puigmacia, 1985) , tartraric acid (Veit and Strack, 1991; Soicke et al. 1988) , tartronic acid (Terencio et al., 1993) or malic acid. HCM acids were first isolated as 2-O-caffeoyl-L-malate from Phaseolus vulgaris [(phaselic acid, (Scarpati and Oriente, I960) ] and Trifolium pratense (Yoshihara et al., 1977) , as 2-0-(p-coumaroyl)-L-malate, 2-0-feruloyl-L-malate (Nielsen et al., 1984) , and as 2-O-sinapoyl-L-malate from Raphanus sativus (Linscheid et al. 1980) . Further occurrence of HCM acids without values for optical rotation has been reported for some Fabacean vegetables (Winter and Herrmann, 1986 ) and for Parietaria officinalis and Urtica dioica, both Urticaceae (Budzianowski. 1990; 1991) . Fumariaceae (Hahn and Nahrstedt, 1993a) . Two years earlier (+)-caffeoyl-L-malic acid was isolated from Chelidonium majus, Papaveraceae (Hahn and Nahrstedt, 1991) . These results prompted a study on the distribution of HCM acids in Papaveraceae and Fumariaceae. Not only the occurrence but especially the optical rotation were investigated in order to reveal the signifi cance as taxonomic feature. Although HPLCscreening methods with UV-or DAD for hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives are elegant and well established (Winter and Herrmann, 1984; Brandi and Herrmann, 1983; Torres et al., 1987) , some times uncertainties arise on the identification of substances with similar chromatographic behavior and comparable UV-maxima. Wolfender et al. (1994) have reported on the problem of complex plant extracts and identification of substances by only chromatographic and UV-spectroscopic methods and proposed LC-MS-methods as suit able analytical tool to get definite information about the composition of extracts and distribution of compounds. Thus we developed an LC-TSP/ MS-method to confirm the occurrence and distri bution of hydroxycinnamic acid malate esters in the crude plant extracts of Fumariaceae and Papa veraceae.
Vacuoles isolated from mesophyll protoplasts of the Crassulacean acid metabolism plant Bryophyllum daigremontianum take up [(14)C]l-malic acid from the medium. The initial rates of uptake show saturation kinetics (apparent K(m) about 1 millimolar). In competition experiments, the uptake rates of l-malic acid are greatly reduced in the presence of a surplus of d-malic and tartronic acid. A number of other acids are much less effective and aspartic and isocitric acid have virtually no effect. The uptake rate of malic acid is unchanged in the presence of ATP and the uncouplers dinitrophenol and carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone. When the vacuoles are isolated in the absence of bovine serum albumin or when 1 millimolar HgCl(2) is added, they are inactive in transport but retain their malic acid pool. The existence of a specific permease which catalyzes an exchange diffusion of malic acid across the vacuolar membrane is postulated.
The oxidation of organic compounds derived from biomass has attracted increasing attention due to its possible application in fuel cells and because some compounds can be used to produce valuable chemicals [1, 2] . Glycerol, a surplus by-product from the production of biodiesel, can be oxidized to CO 2 yielding 14 electrons, making its use as fuel in a Direct Alcohol Fuel Cell (DAFC) very attractive [1, 3] . Furthermore, glycerol can be oxidized to functionalized feedstock such as dihydroxyacetone (DHA), glyceric acid (GEA) and tartronic acid (TA), all commercially useful compounds [2] . DHA, a product of secondary alcohol oxidation, is especially interesting because it is widely used in the cosmetic industry as self-tanning agent. It is currently produced by microbial oxidation, a method that requires a low glycerol concentration and a long operation time [4] .
Vacuoles isolated from mesophyi protoplasts of the Crassulacean acid metabolism plant Bryophyliwn daigremnwa n take up 14CIL-malic acid from the medium. The initial rates of uptake show saturation kinetics (apparent Km about I millimolar). In competition experiments, the uptake rates of L-malic acid are greatly reduced in the presence of a surplus of Dmalic and tartronic acid. A number of other acids are much less effective and aspartic and isocitric acid have virtually no effect. The Hamburg, Germany) for 3 h and then with 0.5% (w/v) Cellulase SS (Onozuka) in the presence of 0.2 mm PEG 4000 overnight at room temperature. Protoplasts were then isolated as detailed in (4). This empirically developed procedure yielded protoplasts (Fig. la) suitable for the preparation of vacuoles of the purity and stability necessary for the transport experiments.
Abstract Palladium-bismuth nanoparticles were supported into strongly basic anion-exchange resin of gel-type and tested as catalysts for the selective oxidation of glycerol with molecular oxygen at atmospheric pressure. Detailed study of the precursors preparation and reduction were undertaken. The catalyst 3%Pd-1%Bi where the bismuth was deposited on the palladium particles (3.4 nm) exhibited at 95% glycerol conversion more than 63% yield toward glyceric acid and tartronic acid after 3 h of reaction. The catalyst maintains practically similar catalytic performance as in fresh state for at least five consecutive catalytic cycles without extra catalyst treatment and reactivation.
Palladium -bismuth nanoparticles were supported into strongly basic anion-exchange resin of gel-type and tested as catalysts for the selective oxidation of glycerol with molecular oxygen at atmospheric pressure. Detailed study of the preparation of immobilized palladium(II)-bismuth(III) precursors into the resin and the reduction of such metallated complexes either by sodium borohydride or molecular hydrogen were undertaken. Based on the spectroscopic characterizations was found that the ion-exchange reaction tends to reach a fast saturation and the reduction method significantly influences the size of crystalline Pd particles, the electronic states and surface configuration of the Pd-Bi species. The size of palladium particles differs negligible by the variation of the metal loading in the range of 1 -3 wt. %; however, the latter has a major impact on the reaction rate as well as the yield of the glyceric acid and tartronic acid. The catalyst 3%Pd-1%Bi where the bismuth was deposited on the palladium particles (3.4 nm) formed after borohydride reduction exhibited at 50°C and 200 mL min -1 of oxygen flow-rate 95 % conversion of glycerol and higher than 63 % yield towards target acids after 3 hours of reaction. More than 90 % of glycerol initial conversion and the selectivity of target acids 73 % had been able to be reached after five consecutive catalytic cycles without extra catalyst treatment and reactivation. The interaction between active metal species and the support may influence the performance of catalyst.
Over the past few years many studies have been focused on the glycerol transformation by various catalytic processes including oxidation, hydrogenolysis, dehydration, etherification, esterification, acetalisation, carboxylation, a. o., to obtain alternative commodity and fine chemicals [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] . Among them, the catalytic oxidation of glycerol with molecular oxygen or air leading to the formation of several very highly value-added oxygenated compounds, such as dihydroxyacetone, glyceric, tartronic, glycolic and hydroxypyruvic acids has been attracted great attention [3, 9] . The commercially available oxidation products are actually produced by using inorganic oxidizing agents (such as, permanganate, chromic salts or nitric acid) or by low productivity fermentation processes [10] . The selective oxidation of glycerol using heterogeneous catalysts could be an efficient alternative for the production of these high value-added chemicals by environmentally friendly methods. Among the various target compounds accessible by glycerol oxidation, glyceric acid could be an important intermediate for amino acids synthesis [3] or for further oxidation products such as tartronic acid and mesoxalic acid [11] . Tartronic acid found use as a pharmaceutical in the treatment of osteoporosis and obesity; moreover, due to its characteristic oxygen scavenger property it could be an anti-corrosive protecting agent and an oxygen absorber in food industry [3] .
In the present contribution we have investigated the catalytic activity of Pd -Bi nanoparticles supported into a strongly basic anion-exchange resin of gel-type (Dowex ® 1x4) for oxidation of glycerol using molecular oxygen under basic conditions and at atmospheric pressure. The objective was focused on the preparation of immobilized palladium(II)-bismuth(III) precursors into the resin and the reduction of the metallated complexes of resin either by sodium borohydride or molecular hydrogen. In addition, the effect of the metals loading, the reaction temperature and the catalyst recycling was studied for oxidation of glycerol to obtain glyceric acid and tartronic acid.
There is no information regarding the influence of heat stress (HS) on host metabolic profile. In this study, we investigated the effects of different environmental temperatures on oxidative status, hormone levels, HS indicators, and plasma metabolites in broilers. A total of 1,680 yellow-feather broilers (28 D old) were randomly allotted to 4 groups with 6 replicates. The broilers (29-57 D old) were maintained in thermostatic rooms (20°C, 25°C, 28°C, and 30°C) for 28 consecutive days. The results showed that the plasma cortisol and adrenocorticotropic hormone levels and creatine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase activities gradually increased when the temperature increased from 20°C to 30°C. However, the insulin-like growth factor-І level decreased gradually. Furthermore, heat shock protein 70 expression significantly increased in the liver and breast muscle (P < 0.01). As the temperature increased, the total anti-oxidant capacity in the plasma and liver gradually decreased, whereas the malondialdehyde level increased. The activity of plasma glutathione peroxidase and total superoxide dismutase in the liver showed a similar increasing trend (P < 0.01). In addition, 15 metabolites were identified at higher (P < 0.05) levels, whereas 2 metabolites were identified at lower (P < 0.05) levels in the 30°C treatment group than those in the 25°C treatment group. Most of these potentially diagnostic biomarkers are involved in carbohydrate, amino acid, lipid, or gut microbiome-derived metabolism, indicating that HS affected the metabolic pathways in broilers. Six candidate metabolites (tartronic acid, l-bethreine, tartaric acid, allose, glutaric acid, and neohesperidin) were selected as biomarkers, as they showed high sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy in diagnosing broilers under HS (P < 0.01). In conclusion, in the final stage of growth, we identified 6 plasma differential metabolites as potential biomarkers of HS-induced metabolic disorders in yellow-feathered broilers. This work offers new insights into the metabolic alterations of broilers exposed to HS and provides a new perspective for further study.
A polyuronide, main component of the water extract of achine of Ficus awkeotsang MAKINO (on-gyo-tye), was purified by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose. The polyuronide (Fraction IB) is homogeneous electrophoretically and consists mainly of galacturonic acid. Optical rotation of Fraction IB is and content of methoxyl group is trace. In periodate oxidation of Fraction IB, molar ratio of galacturonic acid residue and periodate consumption was 1, and formic acid formation was very small. Periodate oxidation product of Fraction IB was oxidized further with bromine and the resulted substance was hydrolyzed. In the hydrolyzate, presence of large amount of tartaric and glyoxylic acids and small amount of tartronic acid were detected by paper chromatography. Reduced viscosity of aquous solution of Fraction IB increased with decreasing of the concentration of Fraction IB solution. From these results, it was deduced that Fraction IB has a linear structure of 1→4 linkage of d-galacturonic acid, probably ...
The aim of the research project discussed in this thesis was to study the inhibition of aerobic glycolysis, that is the metabolic pathway exploited by cancer cells for the ATP generation. This observation has led to the evaluation of glycolytic inhibitors as potential anticancer agents. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is the only enzyme whose inhibition should allow a blocking of aerobic glycolysis of tumor cells without damaging the normal cells which, in conditions of normal functional activity and sufficient oxygen supply, do not need this enzyme. In preliminar experiments we demonstrated that oxamic acid and tartronic acid, two LDH competitive inhibitors, impaired aerobic glycolysis and replication of cells from human hepatocellular carcinoma. Therefore, we proposed that the depletion of ATP levels in neoplastic cells, could improved the chemotherapeutic index of associated anticancer drugs; in particular, it was studied the association of oxamic acid and multi-targeted kinase inhibitors. A synergistic effect in combination with sorafenib was observed, and we demonstrated that this was related to the capacity of sorafenib to hinder the oxidative phosphorylation, so that cells were more dependent to aerobic glycolysis. These results linked to LDH blockage encouraged us to search for LDH inhibitors more powerful than oxamic acid; thus, in collaboration with the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Bologna University we identified a new molecule, galloflavin, able to inhibit both A and B isoforms of LDH enzyme. The effects of galloflavin were studied on different human cancer cell lines (hepatocellular carcinoma, breast cancer, Burkitt’s lymphoma). Although exhibiting different power on the tested cell lines, galloflavin was constantly found to inhibit lactate and ATP production and to induce cell death, mainly in the form of apoptosis. Finally, as LDH-A is able to bind single stranded DNA, thus stimulating cell transcription, galloflavin effects were also studied on this other LDH function.
Malic enzyme was purified 43-fold from Mucor circinelloides. The enzyme was dependent on Mg2+ or Mn2+ for activity, was not active with Dmalate and had a pH optimum at 7.8. The apparent Km values for malate and NADP+ were 488 ΜM and 41 Μm respectively. The Mr of the native enzyme was 160 kDa. Five metabolic analogues of malate: oxaloacetate, tartronic acid, 1-methylenecyclopropane trans-2,3-dicarboxyIic acid, malonic acid and glutaric acid, were found to inhibit malic enzyme activity at 10 mM. Four oleaginous fungi, Mucor circinelloides, Mortierella alpina, Mortierella elongata and Pythium ultimum, were also examined, all possessed a soluble malic enzyme, two also possessed a microsomal malic enzyme.
Due to its three hydroxyl groups, glycerol is a potential starting material for various high value fine chemicals such as dihydroxyacetone, tartronic acid and mesoxalic acid. The corresponding oxidation reactions are catalysed by various metals such as palladium, platinum, bismuth or gold. Nevertheless, the selectivity not only depends on the type of the active phase, but is also influenced by numerous parameters such as the metal particles size, the pore size of the support and the pH of the reaction medium. This review not only describes the recent developments in the field of research for new catalysts but also spotlights the role of the reaction conditions as well as the possible transport limitations in this tri-phasic system. Furthermore, an economical analysis of some processes is given, which shows that this is realistic to envision sustainable production of, e.g., dihydroxyacetone.
Abstract Echinodorus macrophyllus Mich. (Chapeu-de-couro) is popularly used as diuretic, anti-arrhythmic, anti-inflammatory, and anti-rheumatic agents. Leaves of this species are largely commercialized and show high level of microbiological contamination (bacteria and fungi). This work describes the effect of the 60 Co γ -radiation on the phenol fractions obtained from the leaves of E. macrophyllus. trans -Ferulic acid, ( E )-caffeoyltartronic acid, 6- C -(1 -hexitol )-apigenin, and 6- C -(1 -hexitol )-luteolin were isolated by preparative HPLC. HPLC chromatograms showed concentration changes of some phenolic constituents, suggesting the formation of radiolytic products. The phenol fractions were active against Bacillus subitilis and Staphylococcus aureus and showed high antioxidant activity. However, the antibacterial and antioxidant activities reduced when the absorbed dose was increased.
A pharmaceutical importance compound, mesoxalic acid, can be produced through selective oxidation of glycerol using laccase/2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyl system. Since mesoxalic acid is the fourth product in the serial oxidation, identification of the reaction conditions and its’ kinetic to maximize the production is essential. Hence, the objective of this study is to examine the effects of process conditions on the distribution of the products and the kinetic. Mesoxalic acid attained was 0.0712 M (>200% of control) at 19 °C, pH 5.5, 1:3 of glycerol/TEMPO ratio and TEMPO/laccase ratio of 9:3. To conclude, a moderate temperature that preserves the activity of laccase would favor the formation of mesoxalic acid. The serial chemical reactions could be expressed by a power law rate obtained via MATLAB through fitting of the experimental kinetic data. Oxidising from tartronic acid to mesoxalic acid was found to require higher activation energy (25.06 kJ/mol) as compared to other steps.
Abstract The two major routes of degradation of phenylbutazone (I) are oxidation and hydrolysis. Hydrolysis gives rise to n ‐butylmalonic acid mono‐( N, N′ ‐diphenyl)hydrazide (II). Oxidation at the C‐4 position yields 1,2‐diphenyl‐4‐ n ‐butyl‐4‐hydroxypyrazolidine‐3,5‐dione (III), which is readily hydrolyzed to n ‐butyltartronic acid mono‐( N, N′ ‐diphenyl)hydrazide (IV). Whereas the mass spectra of I, III, and the methyl esters of carboxylic acids II and IV all demonstrate major peaks corresponding to their respective molecular ions, the mass spectrum of II is essentially identical with that of I, suggesting facile dehydration. In the mass spectrum of IV, the peak of highest mass is found at m/e 205; no peak could be perceived corresponding to the molecular ion or to loss of water, carbon dioxide, or both of these elements from the molecular ion. Under normal pyrolytic conditions, II is decarboxylated to N ‐caproylhydrazobenzene (V) and IV is readily dehydrated to yield III. The mass spectral fragmentation of IV was successfully simulated in the laboratory to give an excellent yield of aniline and α‐keto‐ N ‐caproylaniline (VI) (mol. wt. 205). The probable course of this unusual transformation was elucidated from studies of the accelerated decomposition of IV and derivatives considered as possible intermediates in the degradation process.
Rational control of catalytic selectivity still remains a grand challenge in the field of biomass conversion to value-added chemicals. In this paper, we used PtFe catalyst as an example to understand fundamentals for lattice strain, electronic reconfiguration, reaction kinetics and catalytic selectivity for aqueous conversion biopolyols. Structurally strained face centered tetragonal (fct) PtFe crystals were synthesized and it was confirmed that such unique PtFe nanostructures display intriguing electronic coupling effect and partial charge distribution, as revealed by surface characterization using TEM, XRD and XPS, as well as DFT calculation. Bimetallic PtFe-fct catalysts exhibit a remarkable catalytic activity (TOF: 24 312 h–1 at 65 °C and 1 MPa O2), enhanced selectivity (tartronic acid: 54%) and improved stability for aqueous phase oxidation of biopolyols, in comparison with conventional fcc morphology. Kinetic modeling further indicates that relatively lower oxidation barrier and restrained decarboxy...
The depletion of fossil fuels has heightened research efforts to find environmentally-friendly alternatives to petroleum-based chemicals, thereby, the production of biodiesel has increased significantly [1]. The manufacture of biodiesel lead to different co-products, among them is glycerol (GLY), which represent 10 wt.% of the final product. For this reason, the transformation of GLY in valuable chemicals (glyceric acid, glycolic acid, formic acid, ::: etc) has gained a great interest [2]. Among the different transformation techniques, the catalytic oxidation, as a non-expensive and environmentally-friendly process, is the most developed. ::: There are many studies which deal the kinetic analysis and modelling of the GLY oxidation. However, it is still necessary to further investigate this reaction to explain some aspects which are not clarified so far. This way, the aim of this work is to perform a kinetic modelling of the GLY oxidation. A kinetic model will be proposed by using the experimental results reported in a previous work of our groups [3] carried out in kinetic regime and a carbon ::: balance close to 100 %. ::: FIG1 shows the reaction pathways selected for the preliminary kinetic analysis, by analysis of experimental results reported previously [3] where C-1 (formic), C-2 (glycolic) and C-3 (glyceric) acids have been found as primary products. Direct C-C cleavage into small acids was already reported in previous studies [4]. The first kinetic model has been proposed on formal approach, by considering first-reaction order of all components. For the parameter estimation, non-linear regression was performed by using Matlab. Finally, a statistical analysis of the estimated parameters was performed by the calculation of the standard deviations and the correlation matrix. ::: Obtained rate constants at different reaction temperatures are listed in FIG2, along with a comparison of the calculated and experimental concentrations for the Au-catalysed reaction at 100 °C. Results revealed that the Au catalyst was active and selective towards formic and tartronic acids, and the activation energies obtained were similar than those reported elsewhere [5]. In general, the concentrations predicted with the kinetic model fitted ::: adequately with the experimental ones. However, statistical analysis results (not shown) revealed a strong correlation between different rate constants. Therefore, the model will be improved by the incorporation of further parameters that could influence the activity of the process, such as the base concentration, the reaction orders and in the case of the Au-catalysed reactions, the adsorption constants of the GLY and the obtained products. ::: Moreover, the reaction mechanism will be further analysed by additional experiments of competitive reactions.
Abstract In this work, we highlight the feasibility of new efficient catalytic processes by laser excitation, exemplified in the reaction of oxidation of glycerol over catalysts based on supported gold nanoparticles. We show that this catalytic oxidation reaction can efficiently proceed via laser excitation of surface plasmon resonance of gold nanoparticles, inducing local thermal heating effect. While the reaction did not occur in the absence of any external heat source, with this original approach, 88% of glycerol was converted after 2 h, leading to the formation of glyceric acid and tartronic acid as main products. The photonic activation led to 2.5 times more efficient conversion than an equivalent thermal activation by conventional heating source. Investigations of the laser power and the nature of support catalyst revealed a significant contribution of electron transfer from plasmonic nanoparticles to TiO2 in the oxidation reaction.
The effect of sodium tartronate was studied in experiments on mice and rats on the basis of data on the inhibition of the transfer of carbohydrates into fats by tartronic acid presented by Wesson. Sodium tartronate was administered in doses of 0.025 to 0.09 g and its effect on body weight, fat and liver glycogen was studied. If 0.09 g of sodium tartronate is introduced subcutaneously to adult rats weighing from 254 to 364 g for 10 days, reduction of weight, increase of glycogen content and a certain decrease of fat content is noted in the liver. If 0.025 g of this substance is introduced subcutaneously to adult mice weighing 31 to 33 g, there is an increase of glycogen and decrease of fat in the liver. However, with mice there is no reduction of weight.
Oxidation of organic compounds with oxidants such as air, molecular oxygen or hydrogen peroxide using supported metal catalysts for synthesising valuable intermediate products for chemical industry is well known. In recent years an increased interest has been focused on catalytic processes because these have demonstrated to be environmentally friendly and economically constructively in comparison to the stoichiometric reactions. The use of bio-renewable resources for the production of materials and chemicals continues to attract significant research attention and is highly desirable from the industry. Glycerol, a by-product from bio-diesel manufacture is a highly functionalised renewable raw material. Oxidation of glycerol leads to the formation of a number of products, such as glyceric acid, dihydroxyacetone, b-hydroxypyruvic acid, tartronic acid, glycolic acid and oxalic acid, therefore control in the distribution of products by choosing the appropriate conditions and designing the proper catalyst is desirable. Moreover, glycerol can be used alternatively for the synthesis of 1,2-propane diol which can then be selectively oxidised to lactate, which has immense potential as a monomer for biodegradable polymers. The current production of lactic acid is based on the fermentation and the reaction of acetaldehyde with HCN followed by hydrolysis with sulfuric acid, which is not a desired green process. Therefore, finding an environmentally green process is desired and this can be based on the use of heterogeneous catalysts with O 2 or H 2O 2 as oxidants. We have recently shown that the combination of gold and palladium in an alloy nanoparticle configuration leads to enhanced catalytic activity and selectivity in redox processes, such as alcohol oxidation and hydrogen peroxide synthesis. We have shown that gold palladium alloy catalysts can be very effective for the selective oxidation of glycerol and 1,2-propanediol to glycerate and lactate. We have extended these studies by using gold-platinum alloy catalysts. We have extensively studied the effect of support, nature of base and Au/Pt ratio in the liquid phase oxidation of glycerol and 1,2-propanediol. In addition, we have carried out the reactions in the absence of base and we have demonstrated successfully the activation of polyols in alkaline-free conditions which is important from industrial point of view. Different type of supports (acidic and basic type) have been studied and the influence of two preparation methods, wet impregnation and sol-immobilisation, are compared. The addition of platinum to gold significantly enhances the activity with respect to the corresponding Au and Pt monometallic catalysts and retains the high selectivity to glyceric and lactic acids using O2 as oxidant. Detailed STEM-HAADF studies have been carried out and have shown the presence of gold-platinum alloy on the surface of the catalyst. Comparison of the activity for C 3 alcohols shows that the reactivity decreases in the order: glycerol > 1,2-propane diol The use of a sol-immobilisation preparation method as compared to impregnation leads to the highest activity alloy catalysts for glyceric and lactic acids formation from the oxidation of glycerol and 1,2-propane diol respectively and the origins of these activities based on the particle size, gold-platinum metal molar ratio, nature of metal and support are presented.
Publisher Summary This chapter describes the use of Ti-MCM-41 materials in the oxidation of the model mono- and disaccharides methyl α-D-glucopyranoside, sucrose and α, α-trehalose, and discusses the effect of the zeolite synthesis on the effectiveness in these reactions. Several preparative approaches of Ti-MCM-41 have been compared in the oxidation of these model carbohydrates. In aqueous medium in the presence of hydrogen peroxide the titanium leaches easily out of Ti-MCM-41 synthesized by impregnation by bis-cyclopentadienyl titanium dichloride of an all silica MCM-41. The dissolved titanium catalyzes the oxidation of methyl α-D-glucopyranoside to 1- O -methyl glucuronic acid. This product is sensitive to further oxidation to formic, glycolic, and tartronic acid. In the oxidation of sucrose and trehalose monocarboxylate are probably formed beside C 1 – C 4 monoand dicarboxylates.
Abstract Bimetallic platinum-bismuth catalysts, supported on active carbon, were employed to oxidise aqueous solutions of glyceric and tartronic acid with air, in a batch reactor. High selectivities for the corresponding keto-acids were obtained under acidic conditions. Glyceric acid was selectively oxidised to hydroxypyruvic acid and maximum yields were obtained at pH 5 (74% at 77% conversion). Tartronic acid was selectively oxidised to mesoxalic acid with highest yields also being obtained at pH 5 (39% at 79% conversion). Analysis of the reaction mixture after 22 hours indicated that leaching of the platinum component of the catalyst was negligible but significant quantities of the bismuth promoter were present (10–17 mg/l).
Tartronic acid forms a hydrogen-bonded complex, C 5 H 5 NO.-C 3 H 4 O 5 , (I), with 2-pyridone, while it forms acid salts, namely 3-hydroxypyridinium hydrogen tartronate, (II), and 4-hydroxypyridinium hydrogen tartronate, (III), both C 5 H 6 NO + .-C 3 H 3 O 5 - , with 3-hydroxypyridine and 4-hydroxypyridine, respectively. In (I), the pyridone molecules and the acid molecules form R 2 2 (8) and R 2 2 (10) hydrogen-bonded rings, respectively, around the inversion centres. In (II) and (III), the cations and anions are linked by N-H...O and O-H...O hydrogen bonds to form a hydrogen-bonded chain. In each of (I), (II) and (III), an intermolecular hydrogen bond is formed between a carboxyl group and the hydroxyl group attached to the central C atom, and in (I), the hydroxyl group participates in an intramolecular hydrogen bond with a carbonyl group. No intermolecular hydrogen bond is formed between the carboxyl groups in (I), or between the carboxyl and carboxylate groups in (II) and (III).
Abstract High-performance electrocatalysts with excellent activity and selectivity hold the key to the electrochemical conversion of glycerol. Herein, well-defined bimetallic Au@Ag and trimetallic PdAu@Ag core-shelled nanoparticles were fabricated using a seed-mediated growth process and further examined as electrocatalysts for glycerol oxidation in both alkaline and acidic solutions. The activity of the catalysts was evaluated via cyclic voltammetry, linear sweep voltammetry and chronoamperometric measurements. The Au@Ag and PdAu@Ag nanoparticles are highly active in alkaline solutions, but inactive in acidic solutions. In alkaline solutions, the PdAu@Ag and Au@Ag nanoparticles show current densities of 3.94 and 2.57 mA cm−2, which are 4.3 and 25.7 times those of the commercial Pd/C and Au/C catalysts, respectively. The products of glycerol electro-oxidation were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Three major products, namely dihydroxyacetone (DHA), glyceric acid, glyceraldehyde and five minor products including oxalate acid, tartronic acid, formic acid, glycolic acid (GA) and glyoxylic acid were detected. Notably, a remarkable DHA selectivity of 70.1% was obtained from the PdAu@Ag catalyst at 0.9 V. The Au@Ag yields the largest GA selectivity of 31.6% at 1.1 V. The PdAu@Ag tends to yield more C3 products at high applied potentials.
A polyuronide, main component of the water extract of achine of Ficus awkeotsang MAKINO (on-gyo-tye), was purified by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose. The polyuronide (Fraction IB) is homogeneous electrophoretically and consists mainly of galacturonic acid. Optical rotation of Fraction IB is [α]26D=+294.7 and content of methoxyl group is trace. In periodate oxidation of Fraction IB, molar ratio of galacturonic acid residue and periodate consumption was 1, and formic acid formation was very small. Periodate oxidation product of Fraction IB was oxidized further with bromine and the resulted substance was hydrolyzed. In the hydrolyzate, presence of large amount of tartaric and glyoxylic acids and small amount of tartronic acid were detected by paper chromatography. Reduced viscosity of aquous solution of Fraction IB increased with decreasing of the concentration of Fraction IB solution. From these results, it was deduced that Fraction IB has a linear structure of 1→4 linkage of D-galacturonic acid, probably α-linkage.
It was found that oxalic acid is one of the main products in the Briggs−Rauscher oscillating reaction. In nonoscillating solutions, oxidation of iodomalonic acid and/or diiodomalonic acid by Fenton-type reactions also produced oxalic acid as well as I2. Mesoxalic acid yielded oxalic acid under similar conditions. Tartronic acid was nearly inert to Fenton-type reactions; however, tartronic acid was oxidized by iodate and iodine to mesoxalic acid, which in turn could form oxalic acid in the presence of H2O2 plus catalyst. Iodotartronic acid appeared to be a short-lived but significant intermediate, thus both tartronic acid and mesoxalic acid are possible intermediates. Glycolic acid and glyoxylic acid are not intermediates in the oxidation of iodomalonic acid, since they in turn produce formic acid under similar nonoscillating conditions.
In the search for a new class of bone-sparing agents for treating osteopenic disorders, we hypothesized that tartronic acid derivatives, sharing the chemical characteristics both of bisphosphonates and of Gla residues contained in matrix proteins such as osteocalcin, could positively affect bone metabolism. A series of tartronates was therefore tested for their ability to affect bone metabolism. In vitro resorption tests were performed examining pit formation by freshly isolated rat and rabbit osteoclasts plated onto bone slices and exposed to the drugs for 48 h. Tartronates bearing a linear side-chain (DF 1222 and DF 1363A) were the most effective in inhibiting pit excavation in the pM-nM range. Tartronates did not affect osteoclast viability, number, adhesion, or tartrate resistant acid phosphatase activity. Transient cell retraction was observed in osteoclasts plated onto glass and exposed to DF 1222. The maximal effect was seen in cells treated for 4 h at a concentration of 1 pM. DF 1222 accelerated mineralization in cultures of periosteal cells without affecting other osteoblast-like functions. This product was therefore tested in vivo in ovariectomized mice. Bone mass in femur was evaluated, by ash gravimetry, 21 days after ovariectomy. Unfortunately, DF 1222, the most active of tartronates in vitro, was inactive in this test because of its high hydrophilicity and the subsequent too short residence time. On the contrary, its tetrahydropyranyl ether derivative, DF 1363A, endowed with a significantly higher lipophilicity, showed a dose-dependent bone-sparing effect when administered subcutaneously at 10, 30, and 100 mg/kg/die, thus confirming the activity seen in in vitro tests. Because of their feasible parallel effect on both bone resorption and formation, tartronate derivatives may be tested to candidate this class of products for clinical studies.
The reaction pathway for the conversion of glycerol into different products, namely glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, glycolic acid, mesoxalic acid and tartronic acid was studied by means of electrochemistry. Multiple Pulse Amperometry technique was used to control the potential during the electrooxidation reaction. The estimation of the transfer function was realized on the basis of dynamic models for the oxidation reaction. The equations obtained in the s-domain were expressed in the time domain using Inverse Laplace transformation to describe the variation of glycerol and products concentration.
Abstract The syntheses of anhydrosulphite and anhydrocarboxylate derivatives of tartronic acid are described. These compounds, more correctly named 5-carboxy-1,3,2-dioxathiolan-4-one-2-oxide and 5-carboxy-1,3-dioxolan-2,4-dione have been shown to undergo polymerization and copolymerization to poly-α-esters containing the tartronic acid residue, characterized by the presence of a pendant carboxyl group. Thermal polymerization of the anhydrosulphite appears to proceed in a substantially identical manner to other members of the series in which the monomer decomposes by a first order process to yield an α-lactone which polymerizes by a rapid chain growth reaction. Because the rate of thermal polymerization of tartronic acid anhydrosulphite is much more rapid than simple alkyl substituted anhydrosulphites, copolymerization favours the former residues. More successful copolymerization was achieved by the use of tertiary base initiators and the anhydrocarfaoxylate derivative of tartronic acid. The polymers and copolymers described are of potential value in the synthesis of drug-carrying biodegradable matrices or more hydrophilic analogues of poly(glycolic acid) which combine the known bioerodibility of the moiety with that presence of a pendant carboxyl group.
1 For instance, the selective oxidation of glycerol has been shown to produce valuable products such as glyceraldehyde (GLYALD), glyceric acid (GLYA), dihydroxyacetone (DHA) and tartronic acid (TA).
Abstract. The reaction pathway for the conversion of glycerol into different products, namely glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, glycolic acid, mesoxalic acid and tartronic acid was studied by means of electrochemistry. Multiple Pulse Amperometry technique was used to control the potential during the electrooxidation reaction. The estimation of the transfer function was realized on the basis of dynamic models for the oxidation reaction. The equations obtained in the s-domain were expressed in the time domain using Inverse Laplace transformation to describe the variation of glycerol and products concentration.
The partial oxidation of glycerol via heterogeneous redox reaction is a process that is carried out under mild conditions. This allows the minimization of energy waste and by-products generation. This process has been intensively studied by several authors [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] . In mentioned works, glyceric acid, CO 2 , hydroxypyruvate, tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid, glyceraldehyde, or formic acid are among the main products obtained. Although there are reports on glycerol oxidation, there is no record of glyceraldehyde production by electrochemical means on at least pilot plant level.
Among different alcohols employed in polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells, recent efforts have been made to the development of glycerol-based devices [4e8] . The application of this alcohol in fuel cells aims at addressing the existing concern about the large amount of glycerol being generated as a waste by-product of biodiesel production. Through the oxidation of its hydroxyl groups, glycerol can be electrocatalytically converted to generate electrical energy [4] . From a technological perspective, glycerol also shows attractive features, being non-flammable and non-volatile, with energy density in the order of 6 kWh kg À1 [9] . Another important factor that enables the application of glycerol in fuel cells is the low crossover rate usually displayed by polyalcohols, which is lower than those obtained with methanol-based devices [10] . In addition, many intermediates formed during the selective glycerol electrooxidation process show commercial interest. Thus, another promising feature of glycerol is the possible electrosynthesis of value-added molecules. Several authors present an in-depth discussion on the selective synthesis of intermediates such as 1,3-dihydroxyacetone, glyceric acid, tartronic acid, mesoxalate, among others [11e13]. Among them, glyceric acid is an important product that can be applied in the treatment of skin disorders. In addition, in its ester form, this compound can act as an effective and biodegradable fabric softener [14] .
Abstract The electrochemical degradation of tebuthiuron (TBH; 100 mg L −1 ) was carried out under enhanced mass transport conditions (using a flow cell with a BDD anode), while investigating the effect of solution pH, absence and presence of Cl − ions in the supporting electrolyte solution (0.1 mol L −1 Na 2 SO 4 ), and current density ( j = 10, 30, 50 mA cm −2 ) on the herbicide degradation and resulting oxidation intermediates. The enhanced mass transport conditions led to significantly improved performances, comparatively to previous results obtained with a common electrochemical cell. The solution pH or presence of Cl − ions did not affect the TBH removal rate. However, the COD removal rate, despite being independent of pH, was significantly faster in the presence of Cl − ions, most probably due to false results caused by organochlorinated intermediates. In the absence of Cl − ions in solution, the TBH removal rate increased with j , whereas the COD removal rate was not affected, but significantly increased removal rates were attained in the presence of Cl − ions, most probably because of increased formation of organochlorines. As expected, higher values of the general and mineralization current efficiencies as well as lower energy consumptions per unit TOC mass removed ( EC TOC ) were attained at 10 mA cm −2 ; in the absence of Cl − ions, complete removal of TBH and 80% removal of TOC were attained with EC TOC = 0.2 kW h g −1 (less than 1/10 of those for electrolyses using a conventional electrochemical cell). From the identified intermediates, an initial TBH oxidation pathway like those of coupled processes involving photochemistry is expected. Most carboxylic acid intermediates were removed or being removed by the end of the electrolyses (except tartronic acid, which accumulated). As expected, organochlorinated intermediates were identified in the presence of Cl − ions, but were completely removed by the end of the electrolyses. In summary, the electrochemical degradation of TBH in the presence of Cl − ions is not advantageous; no significant improvement in the TBH and TOC removal rates, or in the energy expense, is achieved and the formation of organochlorines is a real possibility.
The increase of fossil fuel price has prompted the oil industry to look for renewable energy sources, biodiesel. Glycerol, the main by-product of biodiesel production has the potential of being a low-cost and extremely versatile building block. Significantly, glycerol has been touted as a promising compound in obtaining valuable chemicals via oxidation route. In this study, oxidation of glycerol by using 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyi (TEMPO) in the presence of laccase to produce a potential anti HIV drug ingredient which is mesoxalic acid was investigated. The study was conducted by reacting glycerol with TEMPO and laccase from Trametes versicolor and varying the reaction conditions such as temperature (5 °C - 61 °C), pH (3.50 - 6.15), molar ratio of glycerol to TEMPO (1:0 - ::: 100:3) and ratio TEMPO to laccase (mM: U/mi) (9:0 - 9:4). A preliminary experiment in which the reaction conditions was fixed at 25 °C, pH 4.5, 10:3 of glycerol/TEMPO ratio ::: and TEMPO/laccase ratio of 9:3 was conducted as screening before the investigation of reaction conditions on the oxidation products. Kinetic study was performed to investigate the reaction rate. Oxidation reactants and products were quantified by using HPLC whilst laccase activity was determined by using ABTS assay. The best reaction conditions after conducting experiments were found to be 19 °C, pH 5.5, ratio 1:3 of glycerol to TEMPO ::: and ratio 9:3 of TEMPO to laccase. A homogeneous model was used to fit the kinetic data via MATLAB. TEMPO was catalysed by the copper-dependent oxidase, iaccase to ::: oxoammonium cations which involved in the aerobic oxidation. The presence of laccases allowed the regeneration of oxoammonium cations, thus, the oxidation process could proceed as long as laccase were active. This different mechanistic pathway was attributed to the difference in redox potential between TEMPO and laccase. The selective oxidation of glycerol by laccase/TEMPO results in no dihydroxyacetone detected. It demonstrated ::: that the primary hydroxyl group had been selectively oxidised to glyceraldehyde. Mesoxalic acid attained was 0.0712 M at the suboptimal reaction conditions obtained. It was two-fold increment from that in the preliminary results. This clearly showes the importance of reaction conditions towards the products formation. Moreover, this study also shows that mesoxalic acid formation consumed less energy in the best condition compared to the conventional method which required high temperature. The activation energy for the formation of mesoxalic acid from tartronic acid was 107.17 kJ/mol which indicated the minimum energy required for it to occur was the highest compared to other steps. The highest in pre-exponential factor and rate constant for this reaction step suggested that the collision of molecules was the greatest. Hence, the temperature affected greatly on the formation of mesoxalic acid.
The stoichiometry, equilibrium, and kinetics of the photo-induced disproportionation of iodomalonic acid to I−, I2, and tartronic acid have been studied by means of spectrophotometry and iodide selective electrode at 20.0 ± 0.2°C, pH 2.0–4.0. At pH > 2.9, only I− and HOCH(COOH)2 are detected as major products and the reaction reaches 100% conversion. At pH < 2.9, I2 and malonic acid are also formed and the reaction stops at a conversion rate less than 100%. Both UV (band with a peak at 360 nm) and visible light (480 nm) have been found to be effective. Two primary photochemical processes are identified: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: While both reactions are sensitive to UV light, only (M2) can be affected by visible light. (M1) and (M2) are considered to initiate a chain reaction sequence in which I· radicals oxidize iodomalonic acid. Dual effects of reaction products on the reaction rate have been observed: while iodine increases the efficiency of visible light and accelerates the reaction, malonic acid inhibits the photo-decomposition by mediating the recombination of I· radicals to I2. © 1995 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
In this study,tartronic acid contents of 56 accessions of different types of cucumber(Cucumis sativus L.)were tested by method of HPLC.The results showed that there were obvious variances of tartronic acid content between different varieties and types of cucumber germplasm,swinging in the range of 1.77-10.22 g·kg-1.Five accessions had more than 7.54 g·kg-1 content and 5 accessions had less than 2.55 g·kg-1 content of tartronic acid.
Glycerol, the simplest tri-hydroxy alcohol, is a highly versatile product, with many potential applications. The biodegradability and multi-functional nature of glycerol makes it a promising precursor for the production of high-value bio-renewable fuel/chemical products through various processes involving heterogeneous catalysis, e.g., acetalization [3, 4] , esterification [5] , etherification [6] , oxidation [7] , dehydration [8] , hydrogenolysis [9] , and catalytic reforming [10] . The glycerol-derived processes involving heterogeneous catalysis, e.g., acetalization [3, 4] , esterification [5] , etherification [6] , oxidation [7] , dehydration [8] , hydrogenolysis [9] , and catalytic reforming [10] . The glycerolderived fuel and chemical products include liquid/gaseous fuels, fuel additives, and chemicals such as solketal, glycerol mono-esters, glyceric acid, 1,3-dihydroxyacetone, epichlorohydrin, glycidol, tartronic acid, lactic acid, acrylonitrile, 1,2-propanediol, and 1,3-propanediol, etc. Catalytic hydrogenolysis of glycerol is a promising approach, resulting in the formation of commodity chemicals such as 1,2-propanediol, 1,3-propanediol, ethylene glycol, propanols (1-propanol and 2-propanol), lower alcohols, and hydrocarbons [11] . Significant efforts have been made to convert glycerol into propanediols, but direct production of propanols via glycerol hydrogenolysis received limited attention.
BackgroundAnopheles stephensi mitochondrial malic enzyme (ME) emerged as having a relevant role in the provision of pyruvate for the Krebs' cycle because inhibition of this enzyme results in the complete abrogation of oxygen uptake by mitochondria. Therefore, the identification of ME in mitochondria from immortalized A. stephensi (ASE) cells and the investigation of the stereoselectivity of malate analogues are relevant in understanding the physiological role of ME in cells of this important malaria parasite vector and its potential as a possible novel target for insecticide development.MethodsTo characterize the mitochondrial ME from immortalized ASE cells (Mos. 43; ASE), mass spectrometry analyses of trypsin fragments of ME, genomic sequence analysis and biochemical assays were performed to identify the enzyme and evaluate its activity in terms of cofactor dependency and inhibitor preference.ResultsThe encoding gene sequence and primary sequences of several peptides from mitochondrial ME were found to be highly homologous to the mitochondrial ME from Anopheles gambiae (98%) and 59% homologous to the mitochondrial NADP+-dependent ME isoform from Homo sapiens. Measurements of ME activity in mosquito mitochondria isolated from ASE cells showed that (i) Vmax with NAD+ was 3-fold higher than that with NADP+, (ii) addition of Mg2+ or Mn2+ increased the Vmax by 9- to 21-fold, with Mn2+ 2.3-fold more effective than Mg2+, (iii) succinate and fumarate increased the activity by 2- and 5-fold, respectively, at sub-saturating concentrations of malate, (iv) among the analogs of L-malate tested as inhibitors of the NAD+-dependent ME catalyzed reaction, small (2- to 3-carbons) organic diacids carrying a 2-hydroxyl/keto group behaved as the most potent inhibitors of ME activity (e.g., oxaloacetate, tartronic acid and oxalate).ConclusionsThe biochemical characterization of Anopheles stephensi ME is of critical relevance given its important role in bioenergetics, suggesting that it is a suitable target for insecticide development.
A screening study of the chromatographic separation of Glyceric Acid (GCA) and Tartronic Acid (TTA) was performed using three different polystyrene-divinylbenzene ion-exchange resins in hydrogen form (Dowex® 50WX-8, Dowex® 50WX-4, Dowex® 50WX-2). The experiments were described by the axial dispersion flow model with the LDF approximation incorporated into the software gPROMS. From the three investigated adsorbents differing by the crosslinking, Dowex® 50WX-2 has presented the higher adsorption capacity, as well as the highest bed efficiency expressed by the number of theoretical plates. The adsorption equilibrium constants were determined from single breakthrough experiments, and a very good agreement between experimental and simulated data was achieved for both single components and binary mixtures. Therefore, the fundamental data determined within this work represents a key contribution to the design of continuous chromatographic processes for the purification of GCA and TTA.
Results: The encoding gene sequence and primary sequences of several peptides from mitochondrial ME were found to be highly homologous to the mitochondrial ME from Anopheles gambiae (98%) and 59% homologous to the mitochondrial NADP + -dependent ME isoform from Homo sapiens. Measurements of ME activity in mosquito mitochondria isolated from ASE cells showed that (i) V max with NAD + was 3-fold higher than that with NADP + , (ii) addition of Mg 2+ or Mn 2+ increased the V max by 9-to 21-fold, with Mn 2+ 2.3-fold more effective than Mg 2+ , (iii) succinate and fumarate increased the activity by 2-and 5-fold, respectively, at sub-saturating concentrations of malate, (iv) among the analogs of L-malate tested as inhibitors of the NAD + -dependent ME catalyzed reaction, small (2-to 3-carbons) organic diacids carrying a 2-hydroxyl/keto group behaved as the most potent inhibitors of ME activity (e.g., oxaloacetate, tartronic acid and oxalate). Conclusions: The biochemical characterization of Anopheles stephensi ME is of critical relevance given its important role in bioenergetics, suggesting that it is a suitable target for insecticide development.
The malate dehydrogenase displayed strict substrate specificity for oxaloacetic acid and showed no activity with a number of keto acids. However, the enzyme showed low activity towards (+)-tartaric acid, (-)-tartaric acid, meso-tartaric acid and tartronic acid.
In the present study, kinetic analysis and modelling of the glycerol oxidation reaction over unsupported Au particles were performed. The reaction pathways, which were determined in agreement with the experimental results, comprise two types of reactions, namely oxidation and C–C cleavage. A homogeneous catalytic reaction model was proposed by considering the occurrence of the non-catalytic reaction, the effect of the temperature, as well as NaOH and catalyst concentrations. The proposed kinetic model could adequately describe the data. The reaction under basic conditions but in the absence of a catalyst favoured the formation of C–C cleavage products (glycolic and formic acids), while in the presence of unsupported Au particles the oxidation to glyceric acid and the direct oxidation of glycerol to formic acid were promoted. Finally, it was observed that the formation of tartronic acid was not promoted by the catalyst and followed the non-catalytic route. ::: ::: ::: ::: Practical applications: The building of a kinetic model for glycerol oxidation in liquid phase using gold-based catalyst allows to better understand the mechanism leading to oxidation and C–C cleavage responsible to some change of selectivities in the process. The model parameters obtained in this study would be used to scale an industrial unit in a reactor modeling. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: The present work describes a homogeneous catalytic kinetic model of the glycerol (GLY) oxidation, by using unsupported Au nanoparticles. The proposed model includes the occurrence of the non-catalysed reaction in basic media and the effect of the reaction temperature, NaOH/GLY ratio and GLY/Au ratio. The model predicted well the experimental results. Unsupported Au nanoparticles were selective to glyceric acid and C–C cleavage products like formic and glycolic acids.
Abstract A number of fluorescence studies, both of trp residues and bound NADH, have been reported for porcine malate dehydrogenase (MDH). The large number of trp residues (six) complicates the interpretation of some studies. To circumvent this we have performed studies with a two-tryptophan (per subunit) MDH from Bradyrhizobium japonicum 3I1B-143 bacteroids. We have performed phase/modulation fluorescence lifetime measurements, as a function of temperature and added quencher KI, in order to resolved the 1.2-ns (blue) and 6.5-ns (red) contributions from the two classes of trp residues. Anisotropy decay studies have also been performed. The binding of NADH dynamically quenches the fluorescence of both trp residues, but, unlike mammalian cytoplasmic and mitochondrial MDH, there is not a large enhancement in fluorescence of bound NADH upon forming a ternary complex with either tartronic acid or d -malate.
A fundamental limitation effecting the exploitation of bio-fuels is that they are not currently economically competitive with conventional fossil fuels. The development of novel chemical processes to convert bi-products from these reactions into high value chemicals could be one method to reduce the economic deficit between these two industries. Glycerol and furfural are produced as bi-products in the production of 1st and 2nd generation bio-fuels. This thesis explores the potential of using supported Au catalysts for the oxidation of these bio-derived compounds for the synthesis of high value chemicals. ::: The reaction conditions were found to significantly affect the product distribution and the reaction rate for the aerobic, liquid phase oxidation of glycerol over a AuPt/TiO2 catalyst. Mechanistic studies suggested that glycerol acid and tartronic acid are primary products in this reaction. This study also implied that C-C scission leading to the unfavourable formation of C1 and C2 products occurred from glyceraldehyde, dihydroxyacetone and glyceric acid. Au nanoparticles supported on hydrophobic supports were found reduce C-C scission, and the incorporation of Pd and Pt to a Au/BN catalyst was found to further increase desirable C3 selectivity. Additional work confirmed that the in-situ formation of H2O2 was primarily responsible for C-C cleavages, which led to the postulation that Dakin oxidation was the mechanistic process by which it proceeds. Supported trimetallic AuPdPt nanoparticles were found to be active for the oxidation of glycerol under base free conditions. The catalyst was found to significantly influence the activity of these particles. ::: It was determined that a Au/TiO2 catalyst could selectively oxidise furfural to produce reasonable yields of furoic Acid. Polymerisation of the substrate was found to inhibit catalytic performance which was suggested to be a result of the polymers binding irreversibly to the catalyst. Optimisation of the catalyst and experimental procedure was found to reduce this unfavourable polymerisation, which led to the production of furoic acid yields in excess of 89% using a AuPd/Mg(OH)2 catalyst. Further tests indicated that the size of the metal nanoparticles and the Au:Pd ratio significantly affected catalytic performance for this reaction. Mechanistic studies identified the presence of three reactions; the direct oxidation of furfural, the oxidative dehydrogenation of furfuryl alcohol and the Cannizzaro reaction. A kinetic study allowed for the determination of the activation energies corresponding to each of these pathways, which ultimately highlighted the potential of using a catalyst for this reaction on an industrial scale.
Abstract Potentiometric determinations of protonation constants and metal binding constants of the ether polycarboxylate ligands diglycolic, carboxymethyltartronic, and ditartronic acid are reported. The magnitudes of the equilibrium constants are discussed in terms of the functional groups present. Competition between ditartronic acid and nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) for calcium(II) demonstrates that the ether polycarboxylates are particularly effective as sequestering agents in weakly to moderately acid solutions.
Nano-sized Au and Pd catalysts are favorable for oxidations with molecular oxygen, and the preparation of this kind of nanoparticles with high catalytic activities is strongly desirable. We report a successful synthesis of bimetallic Au-Pd nanoparticles with rich edge and corner sites on unique support of Mg-Al mixed oxides (Au-Pd/MAO), which are favorable for producing metal nanoparticles with high degree of coordinative unsaturation of metal atoms. The systematic microscopic characterizations confirm the bimetallic Au-Pd nanoparticles are present as Au-Pd alloy. The irregular shape of the bimetallic nanoparticles are directly observed in HRTEM images. As we expected, Au-Pd/MAO gives very excellent catalytic performances in the aerobic oxidation of benzyl alcohol and glycerol. For example, Au-Pd/MAO shows very high TOF of 91000 h−1 at 433 K with molecular oxygen at air pressure in solvent-free oxidation of benzyl alcohol; this catalyst also shows relatively high selectivity for tartronic acid (TARAC, 36.6%) at high conversion (98.5%) in aerobic oxidation of glycerol. The superior catalytic properties of Au-Pd/MAO would be potentially important for production of fine chemicals.
The stoichiometry of CO2 production during the ceric oxidation of various organic acids is measured under conditions with organic acid excess. Measurements utilize a photo- metric methodology. For anaerobic conditions stoichiometries (CO2)produced : (Ce(IV))reduced of about 0 (malonic acid), 0.5 (e.g., glyoxylic acid), and 1.0 (oxalic acid) are found. Oxalic acid showed an oxygen-induced decrease of CO2 production, while other compounds such as ma- lonic acid increased the amount of produced CO2 or showed no changes (e.g., tartronic acid). In the case of mesoxalic acid the stoichiometry is increased from about 0.5 to 2.0 due to the presence of molecular oxygen. The results are discussed on the basis of simple reaction mech- anisms demonstrating that useful information on reaction pathways and intermediates can be extracted from these simple measurements. q 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 30: 899- 902, 1998
A HO2 mass accommodation coefficient of α = 0.23 ± 0.07 was measured onto submicron copper(II)-doped ammonium sulfate aerosols at a relative humidity of 60 ± 3%, at 293 ± 2 K and at an initial HO2 concentration of ∼ 1 × 10(9) molecules cm(-3) by using an aerosol flow tube coupled to a sensitive fluorescence assay by gas expansion (FAGE) HO2 detection system. The effect upon the HO2 uptake coefficient γ of adding different organic species (malonic acid, citric acid, 1,2-diaminoethane, tartronic acid, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), and oxalic acid) into the copper(II)-doped aerosols was investigated. The HO2 uptake coefficient decreased steadily from the mass accommodation value to γ = 0.008 ± 0.009 when EDTA was added in a one-to-one molar ratio with the copper(II) ions, and to γ = 0.003 ± 0.004 when oxalic acid was added into the aerosol in a ten-to-one molar ratio with the copper(II). EDTA binds strongly to copper(II) ions, potentially making them unavailable for catalytic destruction of HO2, and could also be acting as a surfactant or changing the viscosity of the aerosol. The addition of oxalic acid to the aerosol potentially forms low-volatility copper-oxalate complexes that reduce the uptake of HO2 either by changing the viscosity of the aerosol or by causing precipitation out of the aerosol forming a coating. It is likely that there is a high enough oxalate to copper(II) ion ratio in many types of atmospheric aerosols to decrease the HO2 uptake coefficient. No observable change in the HO2 uptake coefficient was measured when the other organic species (malonic acid, citric acid, 1,2-diaminoethane, and tartronic acid) were added in a ten-to-one molar ratio with the copper(II) ions.
Dehydroascorbic acid is shown to be converted to 2-(threo-1,2,3-trihydroxypropyl)tartronic acid in aqueous alkaline solutions. The structure of the acid was determined by mass spectrometry of its acyclic Me3Si derivative. Mass spectrometric and chromatographic data are compared with those of related compounds. The acid is formed by a benzilic acid rearrangement of the intermediate 2,3-hexodiulosonic acid. The rate of formation at 38°C was studied quantitatively by glc. It increases at increased alkalinity but is significant even at physiological pH. The presence of oxygen does not substantially influence the reaction.
The invention relates to a process for surface chemistry DECONTAMINATION OF SOME COMPONENTS NUCLEAR FACILITY metallics. SURFACE TREATED WITH A aqueous solution containing oxalic acid A FRACTION OF CARBONIC ACID FREE AND OTHER FRACTION CARBONIC ACID (3, 6, 8, 11, 12). CARBONIC ACID IS APPROPRIATE ACID (6) dihydroxytartaric, tartronic ACID (8) or acidic mesoxalic.
Wild Onion Urginea indica provide health promoting phytochemicals, as well as nutrients. Onions are bitter to taste, they contains plenty of raphides in bulbs which acts as defensive mechanism. Wild onions are source of Vitamin E, C & K, potassium, dietary fibre & folic acid. They also contain calcium, iron & proteins, several healthy & commercial compounds, such as Bufadienolides, Quercetin, Allose, Mindererus spirit, Tartronic acid & Paraldehyde. These compounds have a variety of health functional properties, including anticancer and antimicrobial activities. They each have been shown to help neutralize the free radicals in the body, & protect the membranes of the body’s cell from damage.
Gold nanoclusters or nanoparticles on various supports (CeO2, activated carbon, HY, REY, and NaY) were investigated for glycerol oxidation in the aqueous phase under mild conditions. Compared with other catalysts, Au/HY showed remarkable catalytic performance in forming dicarboxylic acid (tartronic acid) over the monocarboxylic acid (glyceric acid) or the C–C cleavage product (oxalic acid). Au/HY achieved 98% conversion of glycerol and 80% yield of tartronic acid at 60 °C under 0.3 MPa O2. Further characterization showed that the small size of Au clusters is the key factor for the high oxidation performance. In situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy revealed that glycerol was first transformed to glyceric acid, and then glyceric acid was directly oxidized to tartronic acid.
Dehydroascorbic acid is shown to be converted to 2-(threo-l,2,3-trihydroxypropyl)tartronic acid in aqueous alkaline solutions. The structure of the acid was determined by mass spectrometry of its acyclic Me 3 Si derivative. Mass spectrometric and chromatographic data are compared with those of related compounds. The acid is formed by a benzilic acid rearrangement of the intermediate 2,3-hexodiulosonic acid. The rate of formation at 38°C was studied quantitatively by GC. It increases at increased alkalinity but is significant even at physiological pH. The presence of oxygen does not substantially influence the reaction.
C-(2-Hydroxyethyl)tartronic acid is predominant among the dicarboxylic acids and its formation in 12 % yield makes it a major product from xylan. The structure indicates that it is formed from terminal, oxidized xylose units by beta-elimination at C-4 and subsequent benzilic acid rearrangement. It is proposed that 2-ulosonic acid end-groups or ulosono-1,5-lactone end-groups, related in structure to ascorbic acid, are formed as precursors.
Using catalytic TEMPO with bleach as regenerating oxidant in water tartronic acid (TA) and dihydroxyacetone (DHA) are converted to mesoxalic (ketomalonic) acid. The DHA oxidation results in partial degradation of the reaction product, while conversion of tartronic acid is complete providing another viable chemical route to a potent hypoglycemic agent starting from relevant commercial products.
Catalytic oxidation of tartronic acid (TA) in water over a BiPt/C catalyst generates ketomalonic acid (KM) which polymerizes via ketone-carbonyl to form the corresponding polyether, poly(ketomalonate) (PKM), preventing the competitive formation of KM-hydrate available as reagent. Formation of the polyether (I) and of the hydrate (II) constitute the relaxation processes of generated active KM (keto-form). Polymerization of KM proceeds cationically or anionically depending on pH, which shows that ketone-carbonyl of KM is a dipole. TA, which can be prepared by catalytic oxidation of glycerol (GLY), functions as a precursor for KM as well as initiators such as proton or TA-carbanion for cationic and anionic polymerization of KM, respectively. Perchloric acid and zinc chloride are effective promoters for polymerization of KM. The CeBiPt/C is an excellent multi-functional catalyst which has three functions; (a) oxidation of the two primary hydroxy groups of GLY to form TA; (b) oxidation of the secondary hydroxy group of TA to generate KM; (c) polymerization of generated KM. PKM prepared by anionic polymerization of KM has no hydrogens bonded to the carbon atoms of the polyether chain. Decarboxylation of PKM can be easily performed by adding mineral acid. This shows that PKM is a polymer of carbon dioxide which is bonded to carbon of the polyether chain and is stabilized by sodium ion. Excess oxidation of PKM formed by pure oxygen accelerates complete decarboxylation to form poly(oxymethylene). These observations, assisted by catalytic oxidation, demonstrate new chemistry of GLY as a renewable resource. TA-carbanion can also be used as an initiator for the anionic polymerization of glyoxylic acid (GOA) in a basic aqueous media to form poly(glyoxylate). ::: ::: ::: ::: Zinc chloride, a Lewis acid, can be an initiator for cationic polymerization of half-neutralized GOA in water. GOA, which has been generally used as an ester for polyether synthesis, can be polymerized in water by controlling pH-dependent hydration equilibrium of GOA to aldehyde-form. Copolymer of KM and pyruvic acid prepared by anionic copolymerization initiated by TA-carbanion shows excellent Ca-sequestrancy as a detergent builder. Polymerization of a substituted ketone, generated by catalytic oxidation of a corresponding precursor, polymerizes via ketone-carbonyl even in water to form the corresponding polyether. Oxidative polymerization in water of an aliphatic hydroxy compound is a new methodology for the advancement of fine chemistry and functional polymers. Copyright © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
One possible route for glycerol utilisation is through a reforming process in which clean hydrogen can be produced. This study presents the results of an Alkaline Membrane Electroreforming Reactor operated with KOH-doped polybenzimidazole (PBI). Commercial PtRu/C and Pt/C are used as catalysts for the anode and the cathode, respectively. The influence of two important operating variables, the temperature, and the composition of the cathode feed solution is studied. A significant enhancement in the cell performance is observed with the temperature until 90oC. The highest efficiency for H2 production (comparison with the amount predicted from Faraday’s law) corresponds to a KOH concentration in the cathode feed solution of 2 mol L -1 . Logically, higher current densities favours the amount of hydrogen produced and approaches the experimental values to the theoretical ones. Finally, the analyses of the product distribution show that more oxidized species can be obtained the higher the temperature and the current density, though the main products are C3 organic acids, especially tartronic acid.
C-(2,3-Dihydroxypropyl)tartronic acid is a major dicarboxylic acid formed during O2-NaOH and O2-NaHCO3 treatment of cellobiose. The observation that this acid is the main reaction product after alkali treatment of ::: ascorbic acid in O2-free medium supports the conclusion that it is formed via an aglycon moiety related to ascorbic acid. Other dicarboxylic acids from cellobiose are oxalic, tartronic, deoxytetraric, ::: C-(hydroxymethyl)tartronic, and succinic acids. ::: The temperature, pH and additions of iron and cobalt salts strongly influence the product composition. The formation of aldobionic acids from cellobiose parallels the formation ::: of aldonic acid end groups during oxygen bleaching of cellulose.
Gold and gold alloys, in the form of supported nanoparticles, have been shown over the last three decades to be highly effective oxidation catalysts. Mixed metal oxide perovskites, with their high structural tolerance, are ideal for investigating how changes in the chemical composition of supports affect the catalysts' properties, while retaining similar surface areas, morphologies and metal co-ordinations. However, a significant disadvantage of using perovskites as supports is their high crystallinity and small surface area. We report the use of a supercritical carbon dioxide anti-solvent precipitation methodology to prepare large surface area lanthanum based perovskites, making the deposition of 1 wt% AuPt nanoparticles feasible. These catalysts were used for the selective oxidation of glycerol. By changing the elemental composition of the perovskite B site, we dramatically altered the reaction pathway between a sequential oxidation route to glyceric or tartronic acid and a dehydration reaction pathway to lactic acid. Selectivity profiles were correlated to reported oxygen adsorption capacities of the perovskite supports and also to changes in the AuPt nanoparticle morphologies. Extended time on line analysis using the best oxidation catalyst (AuPt/LaMnO3) produced an exceptionally high tartronic acid yield. LaMnO3 produced from alternative preparation methods was found to have lower activities, but gave comparable selectivity profiles to that produced using the supercritical carbon dioxide anti-solvent precipitation methodology.
Gold and gold alloys, in the form of supported nanoparticles, have been shown over the last three decades to be highly effective oxidation catalysts. Mixed metal oxide perovskites, with their high structural tolerance, are ideal for investigating how changes in the chemical composition of supports affect the catalysts' properties, while retaining similar surface areas, morphologies and metal co-ordinations. However, a significant disadvantage of using perovskites as supports is their high crystallinity and small surface area. We report the use of a supercritical carbon dioxide anti-solvent precipitation methodology to prepare large surface area lanthanum based perovskites, making the deposition of 1 wt% AuPt nanoparticles feasible. These catalysts were used for the selective oxidation of glycerol. By changing the elemental composition of the perovskite B site, we dramatically altered the reaction pathway between a sequential oxidation route to glyceric or tartronic acid and a dehydration reaction pathway to lactic acid. Selectivity profiles were correlated to reported oxygen adsorption capacities of the perovskite supports and also to changes in the AuPt nanoparticle morphologies. Extended time on line analysis using the best oxidation catalyst (AuPt/LaMnO 3 ) produced an exceptionally high tartronic acid yield. LaMnO 3 produced from alternative preparation methods was found to have lower activities, but gave comparable selectivity profiles to that produced using the supercritical carbon dioxide anti-solvent precipitation methodology.
The SAS precipitation methodology has been successfully utilised as a method of catalyst discovery. More specically, it has allowed access to a class of materials, namely perovskites, by providing sufficient surface areas to allow them to be used as supports for liquid phase glycerol oxidation. A range of LaBO 3 supports (where B is Cr, Mn, Fe, Co or Ni) was prepared with surface areas between 22 and 52 m 2 g À1 . This allowed for the successful addition of 1 wt% AuPt nanoparticles to make active glycerol oxidation catalysts. Under the catalytic reaction conditions chosen, the selectivity of the reaction could be tuned between the production of glyceric/tartronic acid, through a sequential oxidation pathway, and the production of lactic acid, through an initial oxidation and dehydration pathway. The factor changing the reaction pathway was the choice of element in the perovskite B site, with Cr and Fe resulting in a high selectivity towards lactic acid, Mn being highly selective towards sequential oxidation products, and Co or Ni giving a range of products. The use of the single metal oxides as supports resulted in a loss of control of the product selectivity. Without the AuPt nanoparticles, the perovskite supports were inactive for the reaction. The choice of B site was found to have a negligible effect on the AuPt nanoparticle size but it did signicantly alter the Au : Pt surface ratio, although there is little precedence in the literature for either Au or Pt having signicantly different selectivities towards this reaction. A strong correlation was observed between the reported oxygen adsorption capacities of the different B site perovskites and the glycerol oxidation selectivity prole. A high oxygen adsorption capacity was found to correlate with the oxidation pathway and poor oxygen adsorption capacity for lactic acid formation. Longer reaction times with the AuPt/LaMnO 3 catalyst were found to give an exceptionally high tartronic acid yield of 88% at 100% glycerol conversion. Tartronic acid appeared to be predominantly formed from the sequential oxidation of glyceric acid. The comparable selectivity prole of AuPt/LaMnO 3 prepared by ame pyrolysis and mechanochemical methods demonstrates the general applicability of perovskites as supports for selective oxidation reactions.
