Abstract The presence of residual 2-chloroethanol has been demonstrated in ethylene oxidesterilized plastic materials. Previous studies from this laboratory have shown 2-chloroethanol to be acutely toxic to various rabbit tissues. The present study was undertaken to assess more accurately the nature of the damage to dermal and epidermal structures. Ic injections of several concentrations of ethanol and 2-chloroethanol were carried out utilizing the shaved back of albino rabbits. Appraisal of the toxic response of each compound with the light microscope revealed a classical inflammatory reaction, the magnitude of which varied directly with the administered concentration. In zones of higher alcoholic concentration, coagulative necrosis of collagen and dermal cellular structures was present. The peripheral areas, like the lower concentration injection sites, showed plentiful polymorphonuclear leukocytes and edema, but no visible changes in fibroblasts or other cellular structures. However, scrutiny with the electron microscope revealed a number of degenerative subcellular changes, including unusually shaped nuclei and nucleoli, vacuolization, intracellular inclusion bodies, plasmalemmal retraction, swelling of the endoplasmic reticulum, aggregation of ribosomes and tonofibrils and degenerated mitochondria. Both ethanol and 2-chloroethanol exerted similar toxic effects, although 2-chloroethanol was always more potent. The chlorine atom potentiates the lipophilicity of the ethanol molecule, thus enhancing its protein denaturing and lipid solvating properties.
A reinvestigation of the aqueous decomposition of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosoureas has shown that their mode of decomposition is dependent upon whether or not the solution is buffered at or near physiological pH. In distilled water, the 2-chloroethyl compounds decompose with the loss of 1 mol, or slightly less, of chloride ion per mole in nitrosourea and the formation of acetaldehyde and 3-4% of 2-chloroethanol. In buffer, the yield of 2-chloroethanol increases to 0.3-0.6 mol per mole of nitrosourea, the yield of chloride ion decreases to 0.5 mol per mole of nitrosourea, and the yield of acetaldehyde decreases to 0.1-0.4 mol per mole of nitrosourea. Evidence for the formation of the vinyl cation, a possible precursor of acetaldehyde, in these reactions is presented. In contrast to the results obtained with the N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosoureas, the decomposition of N,N'-bis(2-fluoroethy)-N-nitrosourea in distilled water gave almost 1 mol of 2-fluoroethanol per mole of nitrosourea and only 0.04 mol of acetaldehyde per mole of nitrosourea.
The alcohol-soluble proteins (hordeins from barley, gliadins from wheat) were extracted from the embryo-removed seeds of four barley cultivars (Hordeum vulgare L.) and three wheat cultivars (Triticum aestivum L.) with different extracting solvents. The results revealed that the extraction of hordeins and gliadins was most efficient with extraction solution composed of the 2-chloroethanol (25%) and 2-mercaptothanol (1%). Using this extractant, more hordein or gliadin protein bands could be resolved by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis under acid pH condition.
Subacute poisoning of 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) has become a serious occupational problem in China, and brain edema is its main pathological consequence, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms. As the metabolite of 1,2-DCE, 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) is more reactive, and might play an important role in the toxic effects of 1,2-DCE. In our previous studies, we found that matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) expression was enhanced in mouse brains upon treatment with 1,2-DCE, and in rat astrocytes exposed to 2-CE. In the present study, we analyzed the association of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) with MMP-9 overexpression in astrocytes treated with 2-CE. MMP-9, p65, c-Jun, and c-Fos were significantly upregulated by 2-CE treatment, which also enhanced phosphorylation of c-Jun, c-Fos and inhibitor of κBα (IκBα), and nuclear translocation of p65. Furthermore, inhibition of IκBα phosphorylation and AP-1 activity with the specific inhibitors could attenuate MMP-9 overexpression in the cells. On the other hand, inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) signaling pathway suppressed the activation of both NF-κB and AP-1 in 2-CE-treated astrocytes. In conclusion, MMP-9 overexpression induced by 2-CE in astrocytes could be mediated at least in part through the p38 signaling pathway via activation of both NF-κB and AP-1. This study might provide novel clues for clarifying the mechanisms underlying 1,2-DCE associated cerebral edema.
: Sera from 329 hemodialysis patients, 46 of whom had experienced a hypersensitivity-type reaction during hemodialysis, were screened by an enzyme-allergosorbent test (EAST) for IgE antibodies specific for ethylene oxide (ETO). In seven of nine patients who had experienced a severe hypersensitivity reaction (type II or type III), high titers of IgE antibodies against ETO (> 3.0 PRU/mL) were found. However, plasma levels of IgE specific for ETO were in the normal range (< 0.35 PRU/mL) in most (30/37) patients who had experienced a mild (type I) reaction. Selected sera from patients who had experienced severe reactions were further examined for IgE directed against isopropyl myristate (IPM), 2-chloroethanol, and extracts from unsterilized dialyzers. Importantly elevated serum levels of specific IgE against these substances could not be documented. Extracts of an ETO-sterilized, hollow-fiber dialyzer were positive, whereas extracts of an ETO-sterilized dialyzer containing a flat membrane were negative in the EAST. This difference can be explained by the different amounts of ETO present in the dialyzers. We conclude that ETO causes most severe hypersensitivity reactions by an IgE-mediated mechanism. On the other hand, the pathogenesis of mild (type I) reactions is less clearly associated with ETO allergy. Our results also suggest that other potentially allergenic substances in dialyzers (e.g., IPM, 2-chloroethanol) rarely induce specific IgE antibodies in dialysis patients.
Abstract Densities (ρ), speeds of sound (u) and viscosities (η) have been measured for the binary mixtures containing 3-chloroaniline with substituted ethanol such as 2-phenylethanol, 2-chloroethanol and 2-aminoethanol at T = (303.15 to 318.15) K. These experimental data have been used to calculate excess volume (VE), excess isentropic compressibility (κsE), deviation in viscosity (Δη) and excess Gibbs energy of activation of viscous flow (G∗E). The excess partial molar volumes, V ‾ m, 1 E and V ‾ m, 2 E , excess partial molar volumes V ‾ m, 1 ∘ E and V ‾ m, 2 ∘ E at infinite dilution have also been calculated. The variations in these properties with composition for all the binary mixtures suggest that loss of dipolar association, difference in size and shape of the component molecules, dipole–dipole interaction and hydrogen bonding between 3-choroaniline with 2-phenylethanol, 2-chloroethanol and 2-aminoethanol were observed. The excess parameters have been fitted to Redlich–Kister equation and the results were analyzed in terms of specific interactions present in the mixtures. Furthermore, the FTIR spectra have been recorded at T = 298.15 K and found to be useful for understanding the presence of hydrogen bonding between nitrogen atom of amino group of 3-chloroaniline and hydrogen atom of the –OH group of substituted ethanol molecules in the liquid mixtures. A good agreement is obtained between excess quantities and spectroscopic data.
Cattle and squid opsins were found to be associated with phospholipids after extensive dialysis of the salt-free digitonin extract of rhodopsin against 30% aqueous 2-chloroethanol (v/v) at pH 2.5. The approximates sizes of opsin-lipid complexes were estimated by sedimentation studies to be around 110,000 and 150,000 daltons, respectively, for the cattle and the squid opsin. Phospholipids did not dissociate from opsin even in 80% 2-chloroethanol. The complexes were purified by passage through a Sephadex G-200 gel column equilibrated with 30% 2-chloroethanol. The optical properties of the complex suggested the presence of beta-conformation and a small amount of alpha-helix in solubilized cattle opsin.
Abstract: Subacute poisoning of 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) has become a serious occupational problem in China, and brain edema is its main pathological consequence, but little is known about the underlying mechanisms. As the metabolite of 1,2-DCE, 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) is more reactive, and might play an important role in the toxic effects of 1,2-DCE. In our previous studies, we found that matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) expression was enhanced in mouse brains upon treatment with 1,2-DCE, and in rat astrocytes exposed to 2-CE. In the present study, we analyzed the association of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) with MMP-9 overexpression in astrocytes treated with 2-CE. MMP-9, p65, c-Jun, and c-Fos were significantly upregulated by 2-CE treatment, which also enhanced phosphorylation of c-Jun, c-Fos and inhibitor of κBα (IκBα), and nuclear translocation of p65. Furthermore, inhibition of IκBα phosphorylation and AP-1 activity with the specific inhibitors could attenuate MMP-9 overexpression in the cells. On the other hand, inhibition of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) signaling pathway suppressed the activation of both NF-κB and AP-1 in 2-CE-treated astrocytes. In conclusion, MMP-9 overexpression induced by 2-CE in astrocytes could be mediated at least in part through the p38 signaling pathway via activation of both NF-κB and AP-1. This study might provide novel clues for clarifying the mechanisms underlying 1,2-DCE associated cerebral edema.
Previous studies have shown that 2-chloroethanol (2-CE), a metabolite of 1,2-DCE generated in vivo via microsomal CYP2E1, is more reactive than its parent molecule, and therefore might play an important role in the toxic effects of 1,2-DCE [4] [5] [6] . Our studies showed that matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) was transcriptionally upregulated in 2-CE-treated astrocytes in vitro [7] ,
The compounds 2-chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol were administered once weekly subcutaneously to groups of 100 female NMRI mice, in the case of 2-chloroethanol in 3 dosages (3.0, 1.0 and 0.3 mg, single dosage per mouse) and 2-bromoethanol in 2 dosages (1.0 and 0.3 mg, single dosage per mouse). Tricaprylin was used as solvent. The mean total dosage per mouse was 175.9,76.3 and 23.0 for 2-chloroethanol and 72.7 and 21.0 mg for 2-bromoethanol. In addition, by intragastric treatment of rats with two dosages (single dosage 10.0 and 2.5 mg/kg body weight), 2-chloroethanol was examined for carcinogenicity. The solvent used here was salad-oil. The mean total dosage per rat amounted to 1706 or, respectively, to 434 mg/kg of body weight. No carcinogenic effect could be determined in the case of either of the test substances, 2-chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol.
Prodn. of enantiomers of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol (I) comprises:(a) hydrolysing racemic ( plus or minus )- alpha -(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate (II) with a lipase prepn.;(b) sepg. the resulting S(+)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol (Ia) from the unhydrolysed R(-)- alpha -(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate (IIa), opt. after converting (Ia) to its succinate (Ib), and(c) hydrolysing (IIa) and opt. (Ib). The lipase prepn. is equine liver acetone extract powder, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase PS, Pseudomonas lipase AK or Candida antarctica lipase. Also claimed are (Ia) and (IIa) prepd. as above.
The reaction of the appropriate 2-benzothiazolinone with 2-chloroethanol or 3-chloropropanol under basic conditions afforded 3-(2-hydroxyethyl or 3-hydroxypropyl)-2-benzothiazolinone and related compounds 1–7. The reaction of the alcohols 1,4, 5 or 7 with potassium hydroxide and excess carbon disulfide furnished the potassium salts of xanthic acid 8–11 which upon oxidation gave the disulfides 12–15. Esters of xanthic acid 16–23 were prepared by the reaction of 8 or 11 with various halogen compounds. Esters of acetic acid 24–28 were prepared by the reaction of the appropriate 2-benzothiazolinone with 2-bromoethyl acetate under basic conditions. Esterification of 1 with various acids afforded the esters 25, 29–32.
Molecular sieve chromatography and sucrose gradient centrifugation were used to prepare large quantities of purified chromatophores from Rhodopseudomonas spheroides. Electron micrographs of these chromatophores revealed that the final preparations were very homogeneous and free of non-chromatophore particulate material. As an additional check on purity, (14)C-l-phenylalanine-labeled aerobic cells, devoid of chromatophores, were mixed with unlabeled photosynthetic cells. The resulting preparation contained less than 1% of the radioactivity, originally located in non-chromatophore protein. The purified chromatophores were solubilized in 2-chloroethanol and separated into two fractions. Fraction P(1) contained 3 to 5% of the total chromatophore protein and could be resolved into 10 electrophoretic components. The second fraction, P(II), contained five electrophoretic components. One of these components had associated with it all of the pigment and phospholipid present in P(II). Preliminary immunochemical studies on these fractions are also reported.
Rhodococcus rhodochrous IGTS8 (ATCC 53968) was shown to be capable of utilizing 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulphide (CEES) as the sole source of sulphur for microbial growth. 2-Chloroethanol and a compound tentatively identified as 2-chloroethanesulfinic acid have been detected as metabolites. This demonstrates that carbon-sulphur bonds were cleaved in CEES prior to hydrolysis of the chlorine atom. These data indicate that Rhodococcus rhodochrous IGTS8 may be useful for the biodetoxification of the chemical warfare agent mustard (2,2' dichlorodiethyl sulphide).
Abstract A method was developed to simultaneously ascertain 96 h LC50 values for seven freshwater species in a single flow through test with measured concentrations. It allows interspecific comparisons, easy determination of the most sensitive species, and cuts cost of labour, materials and chemical analysis for measured concentration tests. Species tested included fathead minnows Pimephales promelas, goldfish Carassius auratus, channel catfish Ictalurus punctatus, bluegill Lepomis macrochirus, rainbow trout Salmo gairdneri, crayfish Orconectes immunis and snails Aplexa hypnorum. Compounds tested were pentachlorophenol, 2-chloroethanol, 2,4-pentanedione, hexachloroethane, α-bromo-2′,5′-dimethoxyacetophenone, benzaldehyde, 1,3-dichloro-4,6-dinitrobenzene, dursban, sevin and cadmium chloride. The LC50 values from these multiple species tests compared favourably with those determined using single species tests at this laboratory, usually within 20%.
AbstractIn the present study, muslin was modified by graft copolymerization with poly(4-vinyl pyridine) using γ-ray initiation method. The graft copolymers, thus synthesized, were further functionalized by reaction with 2-chloroethanol. The resultant materials, having pyridinium ring and exchangeable Cl−, were evaluated for the removal of fluoride ions from the simulated water samples. The materials exhibited high fluoride uptake and the maximum uptake was observed at pH 4.0, 20°C and 10 ppm of the fluoride ions. The maximum retention capacity of 7.7 mg/g was observed when fluoride uptake was studied up to 10 cycles. The data generated fit the pseudo-second-order kinetics and Langmuir isotherm. The efficacy of the functionalized muslin was evaluated as an antimicrobial agent against a bacterium (Bacillus aureus) and a fungus (Aspergillus niger). It was observed to be effective to inhibit the growth of both the microbes.
Solvent binding to bovine serum albumin in 2-chloroethanol-water mixed solvents of different composition, measured previously by Inoue and Timasheff (Biopolymers (1972) 11, 737–43) is applied to a hydrodynamic study of the solvated protein. ::: ::: ::: ::: From sedimentation and diffusion data, the apparent molecular weight of the solvated protein particle can be calculated, provided an average partial specific volume, computed from the composition of the particle, is introduced in Svedberg's equation. The unsolvated molecular weight of the protein can than be calculated by subtraction of the bound solvent. Further data on the hydrodynamic particle (f/fmin and axial ratio of the equivalent ellipsoid) are readily calculated from these experiments, and reinforce the supposition that 2-chloroethanol is a strong helix-inducing solvent.
Molecular sieve chromatography and sucrose gradient centrifugation were used to prepare large quantities of purified chromatophores from Rhodopseudomonas spheroides. Electron micrographs of these chromatophores revealed that the final preparations were very homogeneous and free of non-chromatophore particulate material. As an additional check on purity, 14C-L-phenylalanine-labeled aerobic cells, devoid of chromatophores, were mixed with unlabeled photosynthetic cells. The resulting preparation contained less than 1% of the radioactivity, originally located in non-chromatophore protein. The purified chromatophores were solubilized in 2-chloroethanol and separated into two fractions. Fraction P, contained 3 to 5% of the total chromatophore protein and could be resolved into 10 electrophoretic components. The second fraction, P,,, contained five electrophoretic components. One of these components had associated with it all of the pigment and phospholipid present in PII. Preliminary immunochemical studies on these fractions are also reported.
Abstract The hydrophobic myelin protein, lipophilin, has been incorporated into bilayers of dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol. The protein was shown to be incorporated into a protein-lipid complex of uniform density by density gradient sedimentation equilibrium. The volume properties of the resulting complexes were studied by densitometry. It was found that a molecule of the protein could prevent an increase in volume at the phase transition temperature of 19 lipid molecules. The remaining lipid underwent its phase transition over a broader temperature range, resulting in a decrease in the volume coefficient of expansion in the region of the phase transition. The protein has little effect on this parameter at higher or lower temperatures. The partial specific volume of the lipid alone was similar to what has been previously determined using freshly prepared suspensions. The partial specific volume of the protein alone was similar to the value calculated based on the amino acid composition. The partial specific volume of the lipid-protein complex, however, was less than the weighted average of the components, indicating that lipophilin could induce an increase in the density of the lipid. This condensing effect of lipophilin was observed both above and below the phase transition and may be a general property of proteins incorporated into lipid bilayers.
Sulfonamides have been the center of drug structures as this group is quite stable & well tolerated in human beings. The synthesis of these structures was started in search of new pharmacological active reagents. These compounds are being tested for the desired activity (ICAM-1/LFA-1 Interaction inhibitors as anti-adhesion therapeutic agents), the biological activity & structure activity relationship will be published elsewhere. Synthesis of morpholine moiety from amino group is done by using reagent 2-chloroethanol.
Abstract. Pseudomonas sp. strain DCA1, which is capable of utilizing 1,2-dichloroethane (DCA) as sole carbon and energy source, was used to oxidize chlorinated methanes, ethanes, propanes, and ethenes. Chloroacetic acid, an intermediate in the DCA degradation pathway of strain DCA1, was used as a co-substrate since it was readily oxidized by DCA-grown cells of strain DCA1 and did not compete for the monooxygenase. All of the tested compounds except tetrachloroethylene (PER) were oxidized by cells expressing DCA monooxygenase. Strain DCA1 could not utilize any of these compounds as a growth substrate. Co-metabolic oxidation during growth on DCA was studied with 1,2-dichloropropane. Although growth on this mixture occurred, 1,2-dichloropropane strongly inhibited growth of strain DCA1. This inhibition was not caused by competition for the monooxygenase. It was shown that the oxidation of 1,2-dichloropropane resulted in the accumulation of 2,3-dichloro-1-propanol and 2-chloroethanol.
Abstract In this paper, we present a study of an innovative way of preparing and characterizing functionalized conducting polymers. Instead of electropolymerizing the pre-functionalized monomer, with a procedure that must be optimized for many experimental aspects, the functionalization of the pre-electropolymerized film on a polarizable electrode is proposed and discussed here. The alkoxylation of pre-electropolymerized poly(2,2′-bithiophene) films, deposited on platinum or gold electrodes, was carried out by electrooxidative treatment of the polymers under several different experimental conditions, in acetonitrile solutions of 2-bromoethanol or 2-chloroethanol. Electrofunctionalization has been carried out potentiostatically, i.e. by keeping the potential at a fixed value, or by cycling it between oxidising and reducing values. The highest yields have been reached potentiostatically. The proposed mechanism for the functionalization reaction is supported by the results of scanning electron microscopy and reflectance-mode FT-IR microscopy, which have been interpreted by means of chemometric techniques.
In this paper,hydroxyethyl chitosan was synthesized by reacting 2-chloroethanol with alkalified chitosan in isopropanol.The product was characterized by FT IR,EA,1H NMR,XRD and DSC.Furthermore,a series of chitosan/poly(D,L-lactide)(CS/PDLLA) and hydroxyethyl chitosan/poly(D,L-lactide)(HECS/PDLLA) blend films were prepared by solution co-blending using dimethyl sulfoxide as a solvent.The compatibility of blend films was studied.The results of FT IR and 1H NMR showed that the hydroxyethylating reaction not only happened on hydroxyl groups,but also on amino group,and the degree of substitution of the hydroxyethyl group in aminoglucoside unit of the chitosan was 2.46 obtained by EA.The crystallinity and beginning decomposition temperature of chitosan decreased and its solubility was significantly improved after hydroxyethylation modification.SEM results indicated that phase separation was obviously existent in CS/PDLLA blend films,and the dispersion of chitosan in polylactide matrix was asymmetrical with agglomeration.With the content of chitosan increasing,phase separation and agglomeration were much more serious.When the content of chitosan was up to 50%,it was difficult to form a complete blend film.In contrast,the compatibility of HECS/PDLLA blend films has been perfected.With the contents of hydroxyethyl chitosan rose from 10% to 50%,the compatibility of HECS/PDLLA blend films has not changed too much.
A bacterial strain able to degrade dichloromethane (DCM) as the sole carbon source was isolated from a wastewater treatment plant receiving domestic and pharmaceutical effluent. 16S rDNA studies revealed the strain to be a Xanthobacter sp. (strain TM1). The new isolated strain when grown aerobically on DCM showed Luong type growth kinetics, with 1(max) of 0.094 h(-1) and S (m) of 1,435 mg l(-1). Strain TM1 was able to degrade other aromatic and aliphatic halogenated compounds, such as halobenzoates, 2-chloroethanol and dichloroethane. The gene for DCM dehalogenase, which is the key enzyme in DCM degradation, was amplified through PCR reactions. Strain TM1 contains type A DCM dehalogenase (dcmAa), while no product could be obtained for type B dehalogense (dcmAb). The sequence was compared against 12 dcmAa from other DCM degrading strains and 98% or 99% similarity was observed with all other previously isolated DCM dehalogenase genes. This is the first time a Xanthobacter sp. is reported to degrade DCM.
Abstract Sulfonamides have been the center of drug structures as this group is quite stable & well tolerated in human beings. The synthesis of these structures was started in search of new pharmacological active reagents. These compounds are being tested for the desired activity (ICAM-1/LFA-1 Interaction inhibitors as anti-adhesion therapeutic agents), the biological activity & structure activity relationship will be published elsewhere. Synthesis of morpholine moiety from amino group is done by using reagent 2-chloroethanol.
Phenol is among the simplest aromatic alcohols. The Brønstedt acidity of its hydroxyl group (pK a = 9.89) [1] is significantly higher than that of common aliphatic alcohols such as methanol (pK a = 15.5) or ethanol (pK a = 15.9) [2] due to possible resonance stabilization of the corresponding alcoholate anion. As is observed for aliphatic alcohols whose acidity constants can be influenced by means of introducing electron-withdrawing and -donating functional groups on the hydrocarbon scaffold -cf. the pK a values for 2-chloroethanol, 2,2-dichloroethanol and 2,2,2-trichloroethanol of 14.31, 12.89 and 12.24, respectively [2] -the Brønstedt acidity of phenol derivatives can also be fine-tuned by the presence of suitable substituents on the aromatic core [3] . In combination with the sterical pretense of the individual substituents or the plain substitution pattern on the aromatic core itself, this changed acidity can increase or decrease the bonding abilities of the respective aromatic alcohol's hydroxyl group in covalent and dative bonds. Upon variation of the substituents, derivatives of phenol, therefore, may be able to bind to a vast range of non-and (semi-)metals of the main group elements as well as transition metals in molecular and coordination compounds and give rise to interesting bonding patterns. For phenol and phenolate itself, ample structural information about its bonding behavioursecured and elucidated on grounds of diffraction studies -is apparent in the literature and has shown phenolate to be a remarkably versatile bonding partner. It has been found to act as a strictly monodentate ligand towards main group and transition block elements such as, among others, beryllium [4] , aluminium [5] , gallium [6, 7, 8] , tin [9] , iron [10, 11] , osmium [12] , uranium [13, 14, 15] , neptunium [16] , thorium [17] , cobalt [18] , zirconium [19] , samarium [20] , molybdenum [21] and tungsten [22, 23] as well as a μ 2 -bridging ligand towards, among others, lithium [24] , aluminium [25] , gallium [26] , thallium [27] , tantalum [28] , tin [29] , iron [30] , titanium [31] , copper [32] and mercury [33] . In addition, phenolate has further been confirmed to act as a μ 3 -bridging ligand towards elements such as lithium [34] and zinc [35, 36] and even as a μ 4 -bridging ligand towards sodium [37] . Mixed mono-and bidentate bonding patterns supported by phenolate within one compound have also been reported for compounds based on sodium [38] , barium [39] , boron [40] and uranium [41] . Furthermore, phenolate has been found capable of acting simultaneously mono-, bi-and tri-dentate within one defined compound [42] . Intriguingly, phenol is also capable to act as a neutral as well as an anionic bonding partner simultaneously within one defined compound towards strontium [43] or titanium [44] . Motivated by this highly diverse chemical behaviour shown by plain phenol and phenolate, a research project aimed at elucidating the rules guiding the occurrence of specific bonding patterns in connection with the acidity as well as the steric pretense of substituents on the aromatic nucleus of phenol was initiated. As a starting point, ortho-(trifluoromethyl) phenol was chosen as it is a commercially-available compound that combines the presence of a strongly electron-withdrawing CF 3 group with its bulkiness in close proximity to the hydroxyl group that will act as the main reaction center. It was found that -as of today -structural information for ortho-methyl phenol or other ortho-CX 3 -substituted (with X = F, Cl, Br and I) phenol derivatives is entirely absent from the literature thus precluding comparative studies with regards to the bonding patterns realized by the title compound and its inherent molecular metrical parameters. The only compounds featuring the meta-(trifluoromethyl)phenol moiety bonded to a heteroatom (i.e. no classical organic ethers) whose molecular and crystal structure have been elucidated on grounds of diffraction studies are found for a dinuclear titanium coordination compound [45] as well as two derivatives of phosphorus(V) [46] . Structural information about para-(trifluoromethyl)phenol-derived compounds with the latter moiety bonded to a heteroatom (i.e. no classical organic esters, ethers or oximes) is also scant and only available for two esters of phosphoric acid [47, 48] as well as the symmetric ester of boronic acid [49] . A -purely theoretical -minor study about the hydrogen bonding situation and the conformational behaviour of the title compound has been reported earlier [50] . It is pertinent to note that no structural information at all is available in the literature for any derivatives of trichloromethyl-, tribromomethyl-or triiodomethyl-substituted phenols, regardless of the positioning of the halomethyl group on the aromatic core with respect to the hydroxyl group. A single-crystal X-ray analysis of the title compound was further deemed necessary to assess its chemical composition as a series of condensation and substitution reactions with hydrolytically-unstable substrates -where the title compound was used as one of the starting materials -yielded various hydrolysis products despite rigorously anhydrous working conditions. Preliminary infrared spectra recorded on macroscopic crystals of the title compound hinted on the presence of two different types of hydrogen bonds. Furthermore, due to the scant amount of information present in the literature for ortho-CX 3 -substituted (with X = F, Cl, Br and I) phenol derivatives in general, DFT calculations were performed to assess the bonding situation in the title compound and its heavier homologues to allow for predictions about potential reaction sites for nucleophiles and electrophiles. 
2-Chloroethanol is a precursor of vinyl alcohol-a molecule of atmospheric and interstellar interest-by dehalogenation. Ice particles present in those environments contribute to this reaction. Patterns of microhydration, designed to mimick the interaction with ice clusters, were determined for 2-chloroethanol and the 1-chloroetahnol isomers, to investigate the contribution of hydrogen bonding and electrosttic interatcions into the elongation of the C-Cl bond and the propensity toward dehalogenation.
Abstract A bacterial strain able to degrade dichloromethane (DCM) as the sole carbon source was isolated from a wastewater treatment plant receiving domestic and pharmaceutical effluent. 16S rDNA studies revealed the strain to be a Xanthobacter sp. (strain TM1). The new isolated strain when grown aerobically on DCM showed Luong type growth kinetics, with l max of 0.094 h -1 and S m of 1,435 mg l -1 . Strain TM1 was able to degrade other aromatic and aliphatic halogenated compounds, such as halobenzoates, 2-chloroethanol and dichloroethane. The gene for DCM dehalogenase, which is the key enzyme in DCM degradation, was amplified through PCR reactions. Strain TM1 contains type A DCM dehalogenase (dcmAa), while no product could be obtained for type B dehalogense (dcmAb). The sequence was compared against 12 dcmAa from other DCM degrading strains and 98% or 99% similarity was observed with all other previously isolated DCM dehalogenase genes. This is the first time a Xanthobacter sp. is reported to degrade DCM.
Abstract When wool was extracted at pH 2 under conditions which are selective for fission at aspartyl peptide bonds, material was removed preferentially from the orthocortex. The amino acid composition of the nondialyzable portion of this extract closely resembled that of the low-sulfur protein fractions of wool obtained by oxidative or reductive extractions. Measurements of the optical rotatory dispersion suggested the absence of α-helical material in aqueous solution at pH 3, but the presence of 30% of helix in 2-chloroethanol:formic acid (98:2) solvent. Precipitation at pH 5.5 produced sheets of fibrils about 40A in diameter. Films cast from alkaline solution also showed X-ray spacings suggestive of re-organization. The extracts were fractionated by gel filtration into two components of similar amino acid composition. These fractions differed markedly from each other in molecular weight, even when measured in a disaggregating solvent.
Ellman's reagent was used to investigate the status and exposure of the cysteinyl residues in lipophilin, a proteolipid apoprotein from human myelin. The hydrolyzed protein contained 3.5 to 4.5 cysteines per molecule, which increased to 11 after complete reduction. The native protein was thought to contain three disulfide bonds and five free sulfhydryl groups, which undergo partial oxidation during purification. Exposure of -SH groups in the aqueous protein was minimal, even in the presence of 6 M guanidinium chloride, suggesting a location in hydrophobic domains not disrupted by this reagent. In the helicogenic solvent 2-chloroethanol, the full complement of -SH groups could not be revealed, even with the addition of sodium dodecyl sulfate; a difference of two sulfhydryls between intact and hydrolyzed protein was consistently observed. Similar sulfhydryl reactivity toward iodoacetamide was also established in this solvent. Sulfhydryl assays on whole myelin in 2-chloroethanol indicated that the occurrence of -SH groups in the proteolipid component was at least as high as in the purified apoprotein. Lipophilin was reduced and alkylated with 4-vinylpyridine at 10 of its cysteinyl residues. The modified protein adopted a beta structure under conditions where lipophilin is normally highly alpha-helical, and was also less helical than usual in 2-chloroethanol; however, it was still abnormally resistant to denaturation by guanidinium chloride. Modified lipophilin contained as many ester groups as the intact protein; thus, it appeared unlikely that the long chain fatty acids associated with the protein were attached to cysteine residues.
ABSTRACT2-Bromo-2-perfluoroalkyl acids are converted into the corresponding esters by a reaction of alcoholysis in the 2-chloroethanol. The action of zinc on perfluoroalkylated bromo-esters resulted in the bromine reduction products formation via zinc organic intermediates. When heated at 100°C, for 48 h, in the presence of an excess of zinc, the bromo-esters produce the symmetrical bis(vinyl perfluoroalkyl ester) ethoxide compounds, resulting from the BrZnF elimination reaction, followed by a dimerization reaction.
1. ::: ::: The reaction of 2-chloroethanol with acrolein was studied. Acrolein bis-2-chloroethyl acetal (I) and 1,1,3-tris-2-chloroethoxypropane (II) were synthesized. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The reaction of (II) with sodium methoxide, ethoxide, and isopropoxide was investigated. One chlorine atom was replaced with formation of 1,3-bis-2-chloroethoxy-1-(2-methoxyethoxy) propane (III), 1,3-bis-2-chloroethoxy-1-(2-ethoxyethoxy) propane (IV), and 1,3-bis-2-chloroethoxy-1-(2-isopropoxyethoxy)propane (V). ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: In the reaction of (II) with sodium butoxide and t-butoxide the elimination of hydrogen chloride occurred with formation of 1,3-bis-2-chloroethoxy-1-(vinyloxy)propane (VI).
Abstract Different probes such as far- and near-UV CD spectral signals, ANS binding, Trp fluorescence and three-dimensional fluorescence were used to study halogenol- versus alkanol-induced conformational transitions in the acid-denatured state (pH 1.0) of Aspergillus niger glucoamylase (GA). These alcohols showed significant retrieval of the protein structure, inducing both secondary and tertiary structural changes, as evident from the increase in the α-helix and decrease in ANS binding, respectively. However, halogenols were found more competent than alkanols, requiring lesser alcohol concentration to induce similar spectral change. The effectiveness of these alcohols showed the order: HFIP > TFE > 2-chloroethanol for halogenols while tert-butanol > 1-propanol > 2-propanol > ethanol > methanol for alkanols. Both Trp fluorescence and near-UV CD spectra showed anomalous pattern, though the order of effectiveness remained the same as found with far-UV CD spectra and ANS fluorescence. Three-dimensional fluorescence results of the acid-denatured state (pH 1.0) of GA in the presence of 5.5 M tert-butanol agreed well with the data obtained from far-UV CD and Trp fluorescence. All these results suggested the formation of partially folded states of GA obtained in the presence of these alcohols, being more effective with halogenols than alkanols.
2-Chlorethanol, 8-hydroxyquinoline, 2,6-toluenediamine, and eugenol, previously found to behave as genotoxins in in vitro systems and as noncarcinogens in rodents, were evaluated for their ability to induce genotoxic effects in vivo. Rats were given by gavage a single or two successive doses equal to one-half the corresponding LD50, killed at different times after treatment, and examined for the following end points: the frequency of both micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in the bone marrow and micronucleated hepatocytes (after partial hepatectomy); the in vivo-in vitro induction of DNA fragmentation, as measured by the alkaline elution technique, and of unscheduled DNA synthesis, as measured by autoradiography, in hepatocyte primary cultures. The two latter end points were also evaluated after in vitro exposure of hepatocytes to log-spaced subtoxic concentrations. 2-Chloroethanol, 8-hydroxyquinoline, and eugenol never produced effects indicative of genotoxic activity. The same happened with 2,6-toluenediamine, with the exception of a significant increase over controls in the amounts of DNA damage and repair displayed by hepatocyte cultures obtained from rats given two 1/2 LD50 separated by a 24 h interval. Our results, which, apart the above mentioned exception, are in concordance with the rodent carcinogenicity results, contribute to underline the role of in vivo short-term tests for the detection of potential genotoxic carcinogens.
The viscosimetric behaviour and the preferential solvation of syndiotactic, isotactic and atactic copolymers of methacrylic acid and benzyl methacrylate are studied in water/2-chloroethanol mixtures. The experimental results show that the presence of benzyl groups stabilizes the compact structure. In the case of the syndiotactic samples, the extent of the preferential hydration domain, which is related to the existence of the compact structure, is dependent on the composition of the copolymer. Experimental results also suggest that the presence of the benzyl groups destabilizes the inverse compact structure existing in 2-chloroethanol-rich mixtures.
The myelin membrane is composed of 75-80% lipids and 20-25% proteins. The lipids are organized into regular multilayers, with the protein incorporated in them. The protein fraction has been found to be relatively simple in comparison with that of plasma membranes, in that two types of protein make up 70-85% of the total membrane protein (Boggs and Moscarello, 1978a). The first of these, the basic protein, makes up about 35% of the total protein, whereas the second, the proteolipid, makes up about 50%. The proteolipid consists mainly of lipophilin with lesser amounts of Wolfgram proteins, some glycoprotein, and a few enzymes. We have been engaged in a series of studies on the interaction of these two types of protein with phospholipid, using liquid x-ray diffraction techniques. The first of these, on the lipophilin (N-2)-phosphatidyl choline system (Brady et al., 1979a,b,c) showed that this protein was incorporated into the interior of the bilayer in highly associated form, and that as more protein was incorporated, the multilayer structure was broken down to give way to single bilayers. Because the myelin membrane in its native form is a highly organized multilayer structure, it is of interest to see how the incorporation of the hydrophilic basic protein affects the multilayer structure and whether it counterbalances the disrupting effect of the lipophilin. It is also important to determine whether the basic protein exists in extended form in the membranes or whether it too is associated. In this brief communication, we present results of some studies on the interaction of basic protein with phospholipid, using egg phosphatidyl glycerol (PG) as a prototype acidic lipid. PG was used because it is easily obtained and interacts well with basic protein to form stable liposomes. The interaction is similar to that of other acidic lipids, including nerve myelin (phosphatidyl serine, cerebroside sulphate) which has been extensively studied by DSC, ESR and NMR. The results shed light on the two questions raised above. Basic protein was purified from normal white matter (Lowden et al., 1966). Vesicles containing the protein were prepared according to Boggs and Moscarello (1978b). Egg PG was dissolved in 100% redistilled 2-chloroethanol, 5 mg/ml. Lyophilized myelin basic protein was dissolved in 100% redistilled 2-chloroethanol, 5 mg/ml. The lipid and protein solutions
Structural changes of apolipoprotein AI from human plasma high density lipoproteins in 2-chloroethanol solutions were studied using spin label and fluorescence techniques. Reversible changes in spectral parameters occur in 2-chloroethanol concentration range 0-40% and are affected by dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine, of 2-chloroethanol concentration does not exceed 30%. Dialysis experiments demonstrated the absence of binding of monomer phosphatidylcholine with apolipoprotein AI. It thus follows that formation of complexes of apolipoprotein AI with dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine is caused by lipid micella aggregation.
In vitro studies have demonstrated that two different metabolic pathways, glutathione conjugation mediated by the glutathione S-transferases and microsomal oxidation, may be involved in the genotoxicity and carcinogenicity of 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE). To evaluate the importance of microsomal oxidative metabolism in the bioactivation of DCE in vivo, male B6C3F1 mice were pretreated with piperonyl butoxide (PIB), an inhibitor of microsomal oxidative metabolism, and the effect of this pretreatment on the extent of hepatic DNA damage produced by DCE was determined 4 hr after DCE administration. The in vivo genotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol, a product of the microsomal oxidative metabolism of DCE, was also investigated. Hepatic DNA damage was measured with a sensitive, alkaline DNA unwinding assay for the presence of single-strand breaks and alkali-labile lesions in DNA. Pretreatment of mice with PIB to inhibit microsomal oxidative metabolism significantly potentiated the hepatic DNA damage observed 4 hr after a single, 200-mg/kg, ip dose of DCE. Treatment of mice with single, ip doses of 2-chloroethanol as high as 1.2 mmol/kg failed to produce any evidence of single-strand breaks and/or alkali-labile lesions in hepatic DNA. When diethyl maleate (DEM) was used to deplete hepatic glutathione levels prior to administration of 2-chloroethanol, the acute hepatotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol was potentiated but again there was no evidence of hepatic damage. These results indicate that microsomal, oxidative metabolism of DCE to 2-chloroethanol and/or 2 chloroacetaldehyde is not responsible for the hepatic DNA damage observed in these studies after DCE administration.
Wheat gluten may be dispersed virtually completely in 0.01 N solution of hydrochloric acid in 70% aqueous 2-chloroethanol, from which it may be recovered by precipitation with diethyl ether with its properties apparently unaltered. A 0.1 N solution of hydrogen chloride in anhydrous chloroethanol also disperses wheat gluten completely, but there is some loss of amide nitrogen and some of the free carboxyl groups become esterified. After precipitation with diethyl ether the cohesive properties of the gluten are lost. Anhydrous acid chloroethanol may be used also in the direct extraction of the proteins from wheat and rye flour, but is less effective in the extraction of barley and oat proteins. The extraction of the protein from the germ flour of the carob bean (Ceratonia siliqua) is still less complete. Acid-free anhydrous chloroethanol disperses about 60% of wheat gluten. Aqueous acid chloroethanol is about as efficient as anhydrous acid chloroethanol for wheat but extracts more oat flour protein. The intrinsic (bulk) viscosity of gluten dispersed in aqueous acid chloroethanol is much higher than that of gluten dispersed in anhydrous acid chloroethanol, but the reverse is true in regard to the limiting surface viscosities of gluten spread from these dispersions at an oil/water interface.
In vitro studies have demonstrated that two different metabolic pathways, glutathione conjugation mediated by the glutathione S-transferases and microsomal oxidation, may be involved in the genotoxicity and carcinogenicity of 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE). To evaluate the importance of microsomal oxidative metabolism in the bioactivation of DCE in vivo, male B6C3F1 mice were pretreated with piperonyl butoxide (PIB), an inhibitor of microsomal oxidative metabolism, and the effect of this pretreatment on the extent of hepatic DNA damage produced by DCE was determined 4 hr after DCE administration. The in vivo genotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol, a product of the microsomal oxidative metabolism of DCE, was also investigated. Hepatic DNA damage was measured with a sensitive, alkaline DNA unwinding assay for the presence of single-strand breaks and alkali-labile lesions in DNA. Pretreatment of mice with PIB to inhibit microsomal oxidative metabolism significantly potentiated the hepatic DNA damage observed 4 hr after a single, 200-mg/kg, ip dose of DCE. Treatment of mice with single, ip doses of 2-chloroethanol as high as 1.2 mmol/kg failed to produce any evidence of single-strand breaks and/or alkali-labile lesions in hepatic DNA. When diethyl maleate (DEM) was used to deplete hepatic ghrtathione levels prior to administration of 2-chloroethanol, the acute hepatotoxicity of 2-chloroethanol was potentiated but again there was no evidence of hepatic DNA damage. These results indicate that microsomal, oxidative metabolism of DCE to 2-chloroethanol and/or 2 chloroacetaldehyde is not responsible for the hepatic DNA damage observed in these studies after DCE administration. 8 1985 Academic press. IW.
The aim of this study was to explore the mechanisms that contribute to 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) induced brain edema by focusing on alteration of mitochondrial function and glutamate metabolism in primary cultured astrocytes induced by 2-chloroethanol (2-CE), a metabolite of 1,2-DCE in vivo. The cells were exposed to different levels of 2-CE in the media for 24h. Mitochondrial function was evaluated by its membrane potential and intracellular contents of ATP, lactic acid and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Glutamate metabolism was indicated by expression of glutamine synthase (GS), glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) at both protein and gene levels. Compared to the control group, exposure to 2-CE could cause a dose dependent damage in astrocytes, indicated by decreased cell viability and morphological changes, and supported by decreased levels of nonprotein sulfhydryl (NPSH) and inhibited activities of Na+/K+-ATPase and Ca2+-ATPase in the cells. The present study also revealed both mitochondrial function and glutamate metabolism in astrocytes were significantly disturbed by 2-CE. Of which, mitochondrial function was much vulnerable to the effects of 2-CE. In conclusion, our findings suggested that mitochondrial dysfunction and glutamate metabolism disorder could contribute to 2-CE-induced cytotoxicity in astrocytes, which might be related to 1,2-DCE-induced brain edema.
2-Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) formed during the metabolism of the anti-cancer drug ifosfamide (IP) has been implicated in ifosfamide-related neurotoxicity during chemotherapy but the neurotoxic mechanisms are unknown. We have found that IP (900 mg kg-1, p.o.) caused lethargy and mild hind limb paralysis after 6 h. Neurotoxicity and IP-induced mortality was markedly enhanced in mice pretreated with either phenobarbital or dexamethasone to induce cytochrome P4503A. Cerebral glutathione (GSH) levels were also markedly depleted in these pretreated mice. 2-Chloroethanol (92 mg kg-1, i.p.) (CE) also caused a 50% reduction in cerebral GSH 6 h after administration to mice. At this time maximum lethargy and unresponsiveness to touch was apparent in CE-treated mice. Severe hind limb paralysis developed and death ensued 12-18 h later. Prior depletion of cerebral GSH with 2-cyclohexene-1-one greatly accelerated the onset of CE-induced neurotoxicity suggesting that cerebral GSH status is an important determinant of CE-induced neurotoxicity. Furthermore, pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine delayed both CE-induced neurotoxicity and cerebral GSH depletion. Induction of cerebral but not hepatic CYP2E1 by ethanol before CE challenge also potentiated CE-induced cerebral GSH depletion and neurotoxicity. Hepatic GSH depletion was unaffected suggesting that CE-induced paralysis is dependent on a cerebral but not a hepatic CYP2E1 catalysed oxidation of CE to CAA. Ethanol was neuroprotective even if given 60 min after CE and prevented further cerebral GSH depletion. 4-Methylpyrazole, a CYP2E1 and alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor, prevented both CE-induced hepatic and cerebral GSH depletion and paralysis. This suggests that the neurotoxicity associated with IP chemotherapy involves activation of chloroethanol by cerebral CYP2E1 to chloroacetaldehyde which mediates cerebral GSH depletion. Neurotoxicity may be prevented by restoring cerebral GSH status and/or by preventing activation of CE by CYP2E1 with ethanol.
In 1% acetic acid, sedimentation velocity measurements and equilibrium ultracentrifuge experiments demonstrate that the Folch-Pi apoprotein is not monodisperse. The weight-average molecular weight calculated from ultracentrifuge experiments and combining sedimentation coefficient and viscosity measurements, ranged from 64000 to 80000. The intrinsic viscosity value suggests an asymetric shape for the apoprotein if a low value of hydration is considered. In dioxan/1% acetic acid (2:3, v/v) a smaller sedimentation coefficient was found, the intrinsic viscosity value remaining identical to that in 4% acetic acid. In pure 2-chloroethanol, light-scattering experiments led to a molecular weight of 165000 indicating that even in this solvent the protein is not monomeric. Intrinsic viscosity and light scattering measurements on the one hand, primary sequence on the other hand (six proline residues per monomer of Mr 23500) suggest that the molecule in 2-chloroethanol may consist of rod-like segments with flexible junctions.
Abstract ::: This investigation was designed to characterize the immunoprotective antigen of ribosomal preparations from Haemophilus influenzae. The ribosomes that elicited 80 to 90% protection contained 25% protein and 75% ribonucleic acid but did not contain any detectable hexoses. The immunodiffusion and hemagglutination inhibition tests also failed to demonstrate that the capsular material (polyribose phosphate) was in ribosomal preparations. Treatment of ribosomes with ribonuclease degraded 78% ribonucleic acid but did not affect the immunogenicity of such preparations. The proteolytic enzymes reduced the immunogenicity of ribosomes corresponding to the amount of protein degraded. The protection elicited by ribosomal protein extracted with 2-chloroethanol was comparable to that induced by intact ribosomes. In contrast, the low levels of protection observed by immunization with phenol-extracted ribonucleic acid were dependent on the amounts of contaminating protein. Finally, immunogenicity of ribosomal ribonucleic acid and protein was abrogated by treatment with proteolytic enzymes. These results clearly indicate that the protein associated with Haemophilus ribosomes is the major immunoprotective antigen.
Previous studies indicate that tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphate (TCP) preferentially produces hippocampal brain lesions in female versus male rats, and the expression of these lesions is inversely related to the in vivo rate of TCP metabolism. In the present studies, TCP (0.17 mM in all incubations) was metabolized in vitro by liver slices and microsomes from human and Fischer 344N rat liver to bis(2-chloroethyl) hydrogen phosphate (BCP), 2-chloroethanol (CE), and three unidentified metabolites. The rate of TCP metabolism by male rat liver microsomes and liver slices was 0.049 nmol/min/mg protein and 2.53 nmol/min/g liver, respectively. TCP metabolism by male rat liver microsomes was inhibited by 10 microM diisopropyl fluorophosphate, 10 microM paraoxon and carbon monoxide. TCP did not appear to be metabolized by female rat liver microsomes, but female rat liver slices metabolized TCP at a rate of 1.51 nmol/min/g liver. TCP was metabolized by male and female rat plasma at a rate of 0.156 and 0.169 nmol/ml plasma, respectively. TCP was metabolized by male and female human liver microsomes at a rate of 0.027 and 0.031 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. TCP was metabolized by male and female human liver slices at a rate of 1.37 and 1.82 nmol/min/g liver, respectively. BCP and CE were the major metabolites formed in all studies, except for liver slices and microsomes from two human male subjects in which an unidentified metabolite constituted 29 to 38% of the total TCP metabolism. TCP was not metabolized by plasma or whole blood from male or female human subjects. These results support the previously reported sex-specific difference in TCP metabolism by male and female Fischer 344N rats. However, no sex-specific difference in rates of TCP metabolism by male and female human liver microsomes or slices was observed.
The oxidation of a series of primary alcohols by liver alcohol dehydrogenase has been studied under conditions of [S]o greater than [E]o using the stopped-flow method. A biphasic process, with exponential rise to a steady state, was observed for most of the alcohols and the rate constants for the transient phase were determined. No transient phase could be detected for 2-chloroethanol and 2-nitroethanol and steady-state measurements were made for these alcohols. The rate constants for the hydrogen transfer step were obtained from the pre-steady-state rate constants for the various alcohols and correlated with the Taft sigma constant. The (see article) value obtained (-1.8) is consistent with rate-limiting hydride transfer coupled with removal of the hydroxyl proton by a suitable basic group on the enzyme. A possible identity for this group is suggested.
— The proteolipid and its partially delipidated protein from brain tissue have been studied by optical rotatory dispersion and circular dichroism in various solvents. The protein exhibits a helix content of 60–70 per cent in chloroform-methanol and 2-chloroethanol and is dextrorotatory in the visible region. In 1,1,1-trinuoroethanol, a higher helix content of 90 per cent is observed but the protein is laevorotatory. The helix content decreases in water and methanol with a much greater negative specific rotation in methanol. No random coil form has been observed.
Reaction of D-fructose with 2-chloroethanol containing hydrogen chloride at room temperature afforded highly crystalline 2′-chloroethyl β-D-fructopyranoside (4) in > 90% yield. The chloro substituent has been substituted by various nucleophilic anions (N3–, NCS–, AcS–, BzO–) and reaction of the glycoside with base afforded the spiro-internal glycoside 1,2-O-ethylene-β-D-fructopyranose (7) in high yield. Tritylation of the glycoside (4) afforded the 1-O-trityl ether in about 50% yield whereas selective mesitylenesulphonylation gave the 1,4-disulphonate as the major product with the 1-sulphonate being isolated in only low yield. When the 1,4-disulphonate was treated with base the 4-sulphonyloxy group was selectively displaced to give the epoxide, which on more prolonged reaction afforded 4,5-anhydro-2,3-O-ethylene-1-O-mesitylenesulphonyl-β-D-fructopyranose (31) in high yield. Ring-opening of these epoxides by anions revealed that they proceeded in an anti-Furst–Plattner fashion. Reaction of the 2′-chloroethyl glycoside with triphenylphosphine and carbon tetrachloride gave 2′-chloroethyl 5-chloro-5-deoxy-α-L-sorbopyranoside in high yield.
The fluorescence characteristics of lipophilin, a proteolipid apoprotein from human myelin, were determined in aqueous and lipid environments. In all cases the tryptophan residues were located in buried hydrophobic sites of uniform, but limited, accessibility to the permeant quenching agent acrylamide; only in the helicogenic solvent 2-chloroethanol were the protein fluorophores exposed to the medium. Quantum yields were dependent on the state of aggregation of the protein in aqueous solution and increased considerably on treatment with lysolecithin micelles, or when the protein was combined with phosphatidylcholine by codialysis from 2-chloroethanol into water. Fluorescence titrations indicated that lipophilin bound to lysolecithin with an association constant greater than 10(6) L/mol. Radiationless singlet excitation energy transfer from tyrosine to tryptophan residues was found to decrease markedly when the protein was combined with lipids. When the protein was introduced into dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine vesicles, the tryptophan fluorescence did not detect any solid-liquid phase change. These results were consistent with strong hydrophobic interactions between lipophilin and phospholipids, which lead to conformational adjustments in the protein, and to establishment of an immobilized layer of boundary lipid in bilayer systems.
Abstract The acceptor number AN and the polarity parameters Z and ET(30) were determined for a series of alcohols applied as media in the study of kinetic solvent effects. The alcohols thus characterized are methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methyl-2-butanol, 3-pentanol, 2-chloroethanol, 2-methoxyethanol, 2-phenylethanol, 2-cyanoethanol, benzyl alcohol, 3-ethyl-3-pentanol, 2,4-dimethyl-3-pentanol, and 3-ethyl-2,4-dimetliyl-3-pentanol. In addition, AN was determined for 1,2-dichloroethane and Z for the binary solvent mixtures methanol/2-methyl-2-butanol, ethanol/2,2,2-trifluoroethanol. and methanol/pyridine. The data obtained are correlated and the parameters AN, Z, and ET(30) are critically compared.
The newly isolated bacterial strain GP1 can utilize 1, 2-dibromoethane as the sole carbon and energy source. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, the organism was identified as a member of the subgroup which contains the fast-growing mycobacteria. The first step in 1,2-dibromoethane metabolism is catalyzed by a hydrolytic haloalkane dehalogenase. The resulting 2-bromoethanol is rapidly converted to ethylene oxide by a haloalcohol dehalogenase, in this way preventing the accumulation of 2-bromoethanol and 2-bromoacetaldehyde as toxic intermediates. Ethylene oxide can serve as a growth substrate for strain GP1, but the pathway(s) by which it is further metabolized is still unclear. Strain GP1 can also utilize 1-chloropropane, 1-bromopropane, 2-bromoethanol, and 2-chloroethanol as growth substrates. 2-Chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol are metabolized via ethylene oxide, which for both haloalcohols is a novel way to remove the halide without going through the corresponding acetaldehyde intermediate. The haloalkane dehalogenase gene was cloned and sequenced. The dehalogenase (DhaAf) encoded by this gene is identical to the haloalkane dehalogenase (DhaA) of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 13064, except for three amino acid substitutions and a 14-amino-acid extension at the C terminus. Alignments of the complete dehalogenase gene region of strain GP1 with DNA sequences in different databases showed that a large part of a dhaA gene region, which is also present in R. rhodochrous NCIMB 13064, was fused to a fragment of a haloalcohol dehalogenase gene that was identical to the last 42 nucleotides of the hheB gene found in Corynebacterium sp. strain N-1074.
glucagon is a polypetide of 29 residues, which can be crystallised. Optical rotatory dispersion in dilute neutral, acid and alkaline solution suggests that the polypeptide chain is largely random, but contains about one turn of α-helix, which is eliminated in 6 M guanidine hydrochloride. Using thermal difference spectra, nuclear magnetic resonance, and the temperature-dependence of the optical retatory dispersion as criteria, it appears that glucagon possesses no difined tertiary structure in solution, but may be regarded as being in a state of α-helix ⇌ random coik equilibrium, near the high-temperature end of the transition range. That there is no steric objection to the formation of a highly α-helical conformation is demonstrated by optical rotatory dispersion measurements in 2-chloroethanol solution, in which the protein becomes largely helical. A rough calculation indicates that in aqueous solution at pH 2 the transition mid-point is at about –40%%. From changes in the proton magnetic resonance spectrum when glucagon is transferred from an aqueous environment into 6 M guanidine hydrochloride, it is deduced that the short helical segment in the chain in the aqueous state contains most of the long aliphatic side chains, and since the sequence is known it has been possible to identify such as segment uniquely near the C-terminal end. On standing in acid solution the vicosity increases and a birefringent gel is formed. Sedimentation studies indicate the formation of large aggregates. On further standingor warming, a precipitate appears which has the appearance of long fibrils in the electron microscope. Infrared spectra of the gel, of solid films and of the precipitated material show that in all these states the glucagon is in the form of antiparallel β-chains.
Solvent Polarity Scales, Polarity of Alcohols, Acceptor Number AN, Polarity Parameter Z and Ex (30) The acceptor number AN and the polarity parameters Z and ET(30) were determined for a series of alcohols applied as media in the study of kinetic solvent effects. The alcohols thus characterized are methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 2-methyl-2-butanol, 3-pentanol, 2-chloroethanol, 2-methoxyethanol, 2-phenylethanol, 2-cyanoethanol, benzyl alcohol, 3-ethyl-3-pentanol, 2,4-dimethyl-3-pentanol, and 3-ethyl-2,4-dimetliyl-3-pentanol. In addition, AN was determined for 1,2-dichloroethane and Z for the binary solvent mixtures methanol/2-methyl-2-butanol, ethanol/2,2,2-trifluoroethanol. and methanol/pyridine. The data obtained are correlated and the parameters AN, Z, and ET(30) are critically compared.
The newly isolated bacterial strain GP1 can utilize 1,2-dibromoethane as the sole carbon and energy source. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, the organism was identified as a member of the subgroup which contains the fast-growing mycobacteria. The first step in 1,2-dibromoethane metabolism is catalyzed by a hydrolytic haloalkane dehalogenase. The resulting 2-bromoethanol is rapidly converted to ethylene oxide by a haloalcohol dehalogenase, in this way preventing the accumulation of 2-bromoethanol and 2-bromoacetaldehyde as toxic intermediates. Ethylene oxide can serve as a growth substrate for strain GP1, but the pathway(s) by which it is further metabolized is still unclear. Strain GP1 can also utilize 1-chloropropane, 1-bromopropane, 2-bromoethanol, and 2-chloroethanol as growth substrates. 2-Chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol are metabolized via ethylene oxide, which for both haloalcohols is a novel way to remove the halide without going through the corresponding acetaldehyde intermediate. The haloalkane dehalogenase gene was cloned and sequenced. The dehalogenase (DhaA f ) encoded by this gene is identical to the haloalkane dehalogenase (DhaA) of Rhodococcus rhodochrous NCIMB 13064, except for three amino acid substitutions and a 14-amino-acid extension at the C terminus. Alignments of the complete dehalogenase gene region of strain GP1 with DNA sequences in different databases showed that a large part of a dhaA gene region, which is also present in R. rhodochrous NCIMB 13064, was fused to a fragment of a haloalcohol dehalogenase gene that was identical to the last 42 nucleotides of the hheB gene found in Corynebacterium sp. strain N-1074.
In the reactions of pyrimidinethiols and pyrimidinols with 2-chloroethanol and 2-chloro-1-propanol 2-(pyrimidinylthio)alkanols and N-(hydroxyalkyl)pyrimidinones are formed.
Abstract 1,2-Epoxyalkane on reaction with imidazole in the presence of catalytic amount of zinc perchlorate under solvent-free conditions have been converted into N -(2-hydroxyalkyl) imidazoles which on reaction with 2-bromoethanol or 2-chloroethanol gives imidazolium surfactants. These new surfactants have been investigated for their aggregation behavior by surface tension, conductivity and fluorescence techniques. Many important physiochemical parameters, such as the critical micelle concentration (cmc), surface tension at cmc ( γ cmc ), Gibbs free energy of micellization (Δ G ° mic ), Gibbs free energy of adsorption (Δ G ° ads ), degree of counterion binding ( β ) and aggregation number ( N agg ) has been determined utilizing surface tension, conductivity and fluorescence data. Further with the application of the Gibbs adsorption isotherm, maximum excess concentration ( Γ max ) and minimum surface area/molecule ( A min ) of surfactant molecules at the air–water interface is also estimated. The size of aggregates in aqueous solutions has been investigated using dynamic light scattering (DLS) technique where micelle size have been found to increase with increase in alkyl chain length of surfactants. Thermal stability of these new cationics has been found to be decreasing with elongation of chain length as assessed by thermalgravimetric analysis.
CD and PMR spectra were obtained on three major protein fractions of bovine CNS myelin: the basic A-1 protein, the Folch-Lees proteolipid apoprotein (APL), and the Wolfgram proteolipid protein (WPP). Most PMR peaks of the A-1 broadened on going from D2O to salt solutions or to 100% 2-Chloroethanol (2-CE). CD spectra showed no α-helix in water or salt solutions, but showed 42% in 2-CE. The APL showed no PMR in D2O, but did show aromatic amino acid peaks in 1.5% SDS. CD spectra showed 37% α-helix in both cases. The PMR of the WPP in 1.5% SDS showed aromatic amino acids, and the CD showed <20% α-helix. All three proteins showed sharp PMR spectra in trifluoroacetic acid with α-CH chemical shifts characteristic of random coils. It was concluded that the A-1 and the APL aggregate.
Styrene oxide was deoxygenated to styrene in 83% yield by zinc metal and zinc chloride in aqueous ether. Under the same reaction conditions phenyl glycidyl ether gave only 2.8% of phenyl allyl ether, and propylene oxide did not give propylene. Effects of the reaction variables on the deoxygenation of styrene oxide were investigated. The yield of styrene was varied with metal halide in anhydrous THF in the following order; ZnI2>ZnCl2∼ZnBr2>AlCl3>SnCl4>FeCl3>NaI>>MgBr2. Styrene was formed from styrene oxide by zinc metal and zinc chloride in ca. 50% yield in THF, acetone, acetic acid, and aqueous ethanol, but not in anhydrous benzene. The yield of styrene increased almost proportionally with the increase of the molar ratio of zinc chloride to styrene oxide up to 1:1. 2-Phenyl-2-chloroethanol gave styrene when treated with zinc metal in the presence or absence of zinc chloride, but 1-phenyl-2-chloroethanol did not. Possible reaction paths of the deoxygenation of styrene oxide by zinc metal and metal halide w...
Abstract Two similar partition chromatographic systems are described. Acetonitrile or 2-chloroethanol is used as the stationary phase on a celite column and hexane saturated with acetonitrile or 2-chloroethanol is the mobile phase. Both are suitable for the separation of the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones of saturated aldehydes, saturated methyl ketones, 2-enals, and 2,4-dienals. Details of column preparation and operation are given. Graphs indicating the separations to be expected from each of the four homologous series are included.
[1462-33-5] C3H6Cl2O (MW 128.98) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: InChI = 1S/C3H6Cl2O/c4-1-2-6-3-5/h1-3H2 ::: ::: ::: ::: InChIKey = LUTWEKBTDWRTSE-UHFFFAOYSA-N ::: ::: ::: ::: (reagent for cyclopropanol synthesis;1, 2 formaldehyde equivalent in hydroxymethylation of Grignard reagents;3 used for protection of indoles4) ::: ::: ::: ::: Alternate Name: 1-chloro-2-(chloromethoxy)ethane. ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: bp 145–147 °C (66–68 °C/22 mmHg);3 d 1.28 g cm−3.5 ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol most commonly used organic solvents including ethereal (THF, diethyl ether), halogenated (CH2Cl2, CHCl3, CCl4), and hydrocarbon solvents; incompatible with alcohol solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Analysis of Reagent Purity: best ascertained by 1H NMR [(300 MHz, CDCl3/TMS) δ 3.96 (t, J = 5.7 Hz, 2 H), 3.96 (t, J = 5.7 Hz, 2 H), 5.53 (s, 2 H)].3 ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Method: most conveniently prepared by reaction of 2-chloroethanol and 1,3,5-trioxane with HCl(g) at 0 °C (1.0 mol scale, 66% yield).3, 6 ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: by distillation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Handling, Storage, and Precautions: chloromethyl ethers are recognized carcinogens.7 Preparation and handling of the reagent should be carried out in an efficient fume hood, and skin contact should be avoided. Chloromethyl ethers are also moisture-sensitive and should be stored and transferred under inert atmosphere. Excess reagent should be hydrolyzed in water before removing from the fume hood.3
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: claimed invention relates to method for obtaining ethyleneglycol from ethylene. Method includes the following stages: i) transformation of ethylene into ethylenoxide in presence of oxygen, catalyst of epoxidation and retardant in ethylenoxide reactor; ii) absorption of ethylenoxide with absorbent water solution and the following stripping of said absorbent to obtain flow of ethylenoxide water solution; iii) transformation of flow of ethylenoxide water solution into ethylenecarbonate flow in presence of one or several catalysts and carbon dioxide in one or several reactors of carboxylation; iv) transformation of ethylenecarbonate into first ethyleneglycol flow in presence of one or several catalysts in one or several hydrolysis reactors; v) removal of water from first ethyleneglycol flow to obtain dehydrated ethyleneglycol flow and wasted water flow in one or several dehydration columns; vi) purification of dehydrated ethyleneglycol flow in one or several ethyleneglycol distillation columns to obtain flow of purified ethyleneglycol product and recirculation catalyst flow. First ethyleneglycol flow contains inorganic chloride admixtures, and method includes the following additional stages: vii) transformation of inorganic chloride admixtures into 2-chloroethanol by reaction with ethylenoxide in one or several dehydration columns and viii) removal of 2-chloroethanol in wasted water flow. EFFECT: claimed method makes it possible to reduce or eliminate necessity in catalyst discharge. 10 cl, 2 dwg, 1 tbl, 1 ex
Proteins were solubilized in 2-chloroethanol.
The amount of radioactivity incorporated was measured in a Beckman LS 7000 liquid-scintillation spectrometer. Samples in C/M (2:1, v/v) were first evaporated to dryness and dissolved in 10 ml of a scintillation solution containing 5.5 g of PPO (2,5-diphenyloxazole) and 0. Cyst(e)ine residues of bovine white-matter proteolipid proteins digitally on a magnetic tape. This characteristic allowed accumulation of successive spectra to decrease noise and to facilitate data processing. Fluorescence spectra were recorded at 25°C using 4 nm slit widths. APL preparations were the same as used in the c.d. experiments, but were diluted with 2-chloroethanol to a protein concentration that gave an A280 of 0.1. The solvent spectrum was subtracted from the emission spectrum after each experiment. Spectra were also corrected for the instrument response by using a series of correction factors provided by the manufacturer. The instrument was operated in the ratio mode, using rhodamine 6G as a quantum counter to monitor the lamp excitation intensity. A Corning 4-74 filter was placed in the excitation-beam path to decrease the monochromator second-order contribution. Isolation of PLP, DM20 and LMW components After delipidation of the crude preparation by column chromatography on Sephadex LH-60, the lipid-free protein peak, in C/M (1:1, v/v)/5 mM-HCl, was dialysed against 5 mM-sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, containing 0. 1% (w/v) SDS and 0. 1% (v/v) 2-mercaptoethanol, with two daily changes until the proteins were completely dissolved in the aqueous SDS medium. The APLs were separated by preparative SDS/PAGE (Agrawal et al., 1977) . To localize the different bands, a slice was cut along the gel and stained with a 0.25% (w/v) solution of CBB in methanol/acetic acid/water (45:7:48, by vol.). After destaining, the slice was placed on top of the unstained gel and bands were cut out according to the pattern appearing in the stained gel. During the staining procedure, the preparative gel was kept refrigerated at 4 'C. The unstained gel slices containing PLP, DM20 or LMW proteins were placed in individual tubes, crushed, and eluted by incubation for 24 h at 37 'C in the same phosphate buffer mentioned above. The samples were filtered and concentrated by dialysis against a concentrated solution of polyvinylpyrrolidone.
A description is given of the preparation of tetra(2-chloro)ethoxysilane 1 from tetrachlorosilane and ethylene oxide, also by the alcoholysis of tetraethoxysilane with 2-chloroethanol. Some physical properties of 1 have been determined. Cryoscopic molecular weight determinations in benzene solution showed 1 to be monomeric in this solvent over a wide concentration range. The alcoholysis of 1 with n-heptanol gave, as expected, tetra-n-heptyloxysilane 2.
This paper deals with the polytransesterification of 2-chloroethanol derivatized succinic, fumaric and maleic acids with 1,4-butanediol in organic solvent, catalyzed by lipases from Pseudomonas fluorescens, Mucor miehei and pancreas. It will be demonstrated that derivatized fumaric and succinic acids can be polymerized with 1,4-butanediol by lipase catalyzed polytransesterification at 37°C in an organic solvent, and that maleate is isomerized to succinate under similar mild conditions, resulting in a poly(1,4-butanediol fumarate).
Myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) is known to contain long-chain, covalently bound fatty acids. Previous studies, including our own, have suggested the occurrence of an oxyester type of linkage between fatty acids and PLP. However, we found that protein-SH groups are required in the acylation reaction, suggesting the possible presence of thioesters. In the present study, we have examined the nature of the acyl-PLP linkages by determining whether free thiol groups are generated on removal of fatty acids. Incubation of reduced and carboxyamidomethylated proteolipid apoprotein (RCM-APL) with 0.2 M hydroxylamine and [14C]iodoacetamide at pH 7.5 and 37 degrees C resulted in the release of fatty acids and the concomitant labeling of newly formed thiol groups. Incubation with Tris or methylamine at pH 7.5 failed to remove fatty acids and generate free -SH groups. The possibility that on treatment buried thiol groups became exposed was essentially excluded because (1) similar results were obtained in 2-chloroethanol, a solvent in which acylated and deacylated PLP have the same conformation, and (2) small PLP peptides were labeled only in the presence of hydroxylamine. On incubation with [14C]methylamine at pH 9.0, RCM-APL was not labeled, thus excluding the occurrence of intramolecular thiol esters. On the other hand, fatty acids were released as radioactive N-methyl fatty acylamide, indicating the presence of intermolecular thioesters between fatty acids and protein. These results demonstrate that a large proportion of fatty acids covalently bound to PLP are liked to -SH groups.
A variety of alkane halides, alkanols and ethers, analogous to the previously considered halogenated unsaturated (Part I) and saturated hydrocarbons (Part II) possess significant utility in a broad spectrum of applications including: solvents, fumigants, propellants and intermediates in the production of other chemicals, textiles, plastics and ion-exchange resins. Ethylene dichloride and dibromide, propylene dichloride; dibromochloropropane; 2-chloroethanol; 1-chloro-2-propanol; 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol; bis(chloromethyl)-, chloromethyl methyl-, bis(2-chloroisopropyl)-, and bis(2-chloroethyl-ethers were reviewed principally in terms of their synthesis, areas of utility, stability, distribution, reactivity, levels of exposure, population at risk, metabolism, carcinogenicity and mutagenicity.
The microwave-assisted hydroxylethyl etherification of curcumin with 2-chloroethanol was studied in detail by the impacts of irradiation time and temperature,solvents,bases and their amounts,concentrations,ratio of substrate amounts.It was found that the optimal conditions could be established with 76.4% yield by using 3eq potassium hydroxide as the base and 2.2eq 2-chloroethanol under microwave irradiation at 95 ℃ for 6 min in medium of water.This method could be considered as an effective approach to the preparation of curcumin hydroxylethyl diether.
1. ::: 1. The circular dichroism (CD) spectrum of n-pentanol-solubilized human erythrocyte membranes, a preparation which consists of lipoproteins having relatively low turbidity, does not show the red-shift characteristic of CD spectra of intact membranes. The double minima indicating α-helix are observed, but are blue-shifted from the usual α-helix minima extrema. ::: ::: 2. ::: 2. Solution of the lipoproteins in 70 % 2-chloroethanol, an α-helix promoting solvent, results in a red-shift of the 219 nm minimum to 221 nm, as well as a large increase in ellipticity. These data suggest a significant amount of β-structure was present in the pentanol-treated erythrocyte membranes, which may have been generated by the pentanol treatment. ::: ::: 3. ::: 3. Aggregation of the lipoproteins by CaCl2 and MgCl2 results in a turbid preparation with its CD spectrum showing a distinct red-shift and sharply decreased amplitude similar to the features of the CD spectra of the original membrane preparation, indicating that the light scattering and absorption flattening effects due to the particulate nature of the membranes do exert a strong influence on their CD spectra, and in particular may obscure sizable contributions of β-structure.
The viscosimetric behaviour and the preferential solvation of syndiotactic, isotactic, and atactic poly(methacrylic acid), [poly(1-carboxy-1-methylethylene)] are studied in water/2-chloroethanol mixtures. The experimental results show that the preferential solvation of the polymer is strongly dependent on its local conformation. In the case of the syndiotactic sample, a close correlation has been established between the compact structure coil conformational transition and the variation of the preferential and absolute solvation of the polymer by 2-chloroethanol, asserting the importance of hydrophobic interactions in the stabilization of the compact structure. Experimental data concerning the isotactic sample suggest the existence of an “inverse compact structure” in 2-chloroethanol-rich mixtures.
Incubation of rat hepatocytes with N,N-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea (BCNU, 10-100 microM) and 5% O2 caused a time-dependent loss of cell viability, whereas no cytotoxicity was observed when BCNU was incubated with hepatocytes and 95% O2. BCNU (50-100 microM) reduced intracellular glutathione concentrations by 40 and 80% in hepatocytes incubated in 95 and 5% O2, respectively. Intracellular glutathione disulfide concentrations were not altered by 95 or 5% O2 or by the presence of BCNU. The extracellular glutathione disulfide content of cells exposed to BCNU and 95% O2, but not to BCNU and 5% O2, exhibited a 150% increase. Incubation of hepatocytes with 100 microM BCNU and 5% O2 reduced the cellular energy charge from 0.85 to 0.58; no effect on energy charge was observed in hepatocytes incubated with BCNU and 95% O2. The decrease in energy charge was due to a decrease in cellular ATP content (66%) and increases in cellular ADP (180%) and AMP (50%) concentrations. The reduction in both cellular ATP and glutathione concentrations was paralleled by a rise in the activity of phosphorylase a, a sensitive indicator of cytosolic Ca2+ content. These findings indicate that hepatocytes incubated in 5% O2 are more vulnerable to BCNU-induced cytotoxicity than are hepatocytes incubated in 95% O2 and that this vulnerability is associated with the loss of both ATP and glutathione. This conclusion is supported by data showing (a) a similar hypoxia-dependent pattern of cytotoxicity in hepatocytes exposed to the BCNU degradation products 2-chloroethyl isocyanate, 2-chloroethanol, and 2-chloroethylamine and (b) little BCNU-induced cytotoxicity, no increase in phosphorylase a activity, and no loss of ATP with 5% O2 in the presence of adenosine (1 mM).
Raman spectra of 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol have been recorded using both the 4358 A and the 2537 A excitations In the spectra obtained with the later excitation, many new Ruman lines are found for the first time. Assignments of these lines are discussed. When the exciting wavelength is changed from 4358 A to 2537 A, the rflative intensities and depolarization ratios of serne of the Raman lines of the two substances are seen to change also. These changes are explained on the basis of the resainance Raman effect.
Flutriafol was a kind of broad-spectrum fungicide that could be used to control effectively cereal powdery mildew,cloud disease,leaf spot disease and rust disease. 1-o-fluorophenyl-1-p-fluorophenyl-2-chloroethanol was prepared through Grignard reaction starting with 2-fluorobenzyl bromide,and then reacted with sodium triazol to give the title product flutriafol. The total yield and purity were 59% and 94.5%,respectively.
Apolipoprotein A-I can spontaneously associate with phosphatidylcholine and cholesterol in 2-chloroethanol-water mixture. It was demonstrated, using a spin label technique, that dissolved molecules participate in complex formation. The apolipoprotein A-I/phosphatidylcholine/cholesterol complexes were isolated by gel chromatography. Complexes of three types were prepared and characterized: type A, large heterogeneous aggregates with molecular weight 600 000, sedimentation coefficient 10 S and the following molar composition - protein/phosphatidylcholine/cholesterol, 1:(70-100):(10-12); types B and C, with weight average molecular weights 140 000 and 110 000, average sedimentation coefficients 3.6 S and 1.7 S, respectively. Both types have the same molar composition - protein/phosphatidylcholine/cholesterol, 1:25:8. The dissimilar sedimentation coefficients between complexes B and C may be explained by the difference in the monomer/tetramer ratio (monomer molecular weight 50 000). The spin label sn-1-O-stearoyl-2-O-9'-spiro(4'',4''-dimethyloxazolidine-3''-oxyl) heptadecanoylglycero-3-phosphocholine introduced into the complexes A and B showed different thermal properties of these complexes, which may be due to differences in the lipid-protein interactions.
2-chloroethanol molecules having temperature from 300 to 600 K have been captured by helium droplets and the infrared spectra of the O-H and C-H stretching bands of the embedded molecules have been obtained. The intensity ratio of the bands due to trans and gauche conformers of the molecules follows the Arrhenius dependence, giving the enthalpy of conformers interconversion of 1.1 kcal/mol. It is concluded that the abundance ratio of the conformers, which are at equilibrium in the gas phase, remains unchanged upon the rapid cooling of the molecules in the helium droplets.
Abstract Previous investigations have shown that the carcinogen vinyl chloride causes base-pair substitution in the bacterium Salmonella typhimurium. The ability of four conceivable metabolites — chloroethylene oxide, chloroacetaldehyde, 2-chloroethanol and chloroacetic acid — to cause base-pair substitution directly in Salmonella typhimurium TA1535 has been compared. The main comparison was performed at initial concentrations from 0.1 to 1.5 mM. In this region, however, a mutagenic effect was observed only with chloroethylene oxide and chloroacetaldehyde, the former being approximately 20 times more effective than the aldehyde when compared on a molar basis. 2-Chloroethanol and chloroacetic acid were studied also at higher concentration (1 mM-1 M), and a weak mutagenic response was found with 1 M 2-chloroethanol solution. With chloroacetic acid no enhancement of the mutation frequency could be detected. Chloroethylene oxide was found to be approximately 450 times more effective as a mutagen than chloroacetaldehyde when the comparison is based on exposure doses, defined as the time-dependent concentrations of the compounds in the treatment solutions, integrated between the times of onset and termination of treatment. Similarly, chloroethylene oxide was 10 000–15 000 times more effective as a mutagen than ethylene oxide, used as a positive control.
• Ion pair The solute will form ion pairs with the tri-n-octrylamine compound (TOA). Qi Wang et al [19] extracted 2-chloroethanol from the water phase using TOA. Mehdi Ghadiri et al [20] studied the extraction of Mo using TOA and stripping using ammonia solution.
4-Chlorobenzenesulfonyl isocyanate (I) reacted with 2-chloroethanol and 1-chloro-2-propanol to give, respectively, 2-chloroethyl 4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl carbamate (III) and 1-chloro-2-propyl 4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl carbamate (VI). The carbamates III and VI cyclized under the influence of pyridine to afford, respectively, 3-(4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl)oxazolidin-2-one (IV) and 3-(4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl)-5-methyloxazolidin-2-one (VII). The oxazolidin-2-ones were stable toward hydrochloric acid but hydrolyzed in 2M sodium hydroxide solution to N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-4-chlorobenzenesulfonamide (V) and N-(2-hydroxy-1-propyl)-4-chlorobenzene-sulfonamide (VIII), respectively. 4-Toluenesulfonyl isothiocyanate (II) reacted with 2-chloroethanol to give 2-chloroethyl 4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl thiocarbamate (IX), which was converted by pyridine to 3-(4-toluenesulfonyl)oxazolidine-2-thione (X).
Summary ::: Poxvirus haemagglutinin has been separated into two components by ether/ethanol extraction and also by column chromatography after treatment with 2-chloroethanol. One component, lipid in nature, carried the haemagglutinating activity. The other, a protein termed the antibody blocking component, carried the virus specificity. ::: By the use of techniques applied by others to the study of lipoprotein membranes, poxvirus haemagglutinin of high specificity was reconstituted from the two components. The reconstituted material reacted with antibody to haemagglutinin but not with antibody to a non-haemagglutinating poxvirus. Reconstitution did not take place when either of the two components was replaced by fractions prepared from uninfected tissues or from tissues infected with a non-haemagglutinating poxvirus. Mixed haemagglutinins could be prepared from fractions prepared from different tissues or from different haemagglutinating poxviruses.
Carboxymethyl hydroxyethyl starch with good transparency and high stability was prepared through two etherifications successively by adding 2-chloroethanol and chloroacetic acid as etherifying agents. A visualization method was used to optimize the proportion parameters and forecast the optimal process conditions. Carboxymethyl hydroxyethyl starch was prepared according to the optimal conditions, and the value of MS is about 0.3553 and DS is about 0.3412. It proves that visualization method is veracious and credible.
Objective To investigate the toxic mechanism of 2-chloroethanol (CE) on mouse liver. Methods In vitro model was applied to comparative study on the variation of Ca-Mg-ATPase of mitochondria and on the possible covalent binding of CEmacromolecules. Results It manifested that CE did impair the calcium pump of mitochondria in the observable manner of both doseresponse relationship and time-effect relationship, and the damage seemed to be irreversible by the enzyme kinetics analysis. In the mean time covalent binding of 14C-labeled CE to macromolecules of cultured hepatocytes was also found in a time-dependent manner. Conclusion The damage of CE on the calcium pump of mitochondria might be irreversible because of the formation of covalent binding of CE-target macromolecules.
The formation of fatty acid conjugates of haloethanols was studied under in vitro conditions by using purified bovine pancreatic cholesterol ester hydrolase (EC 3.1.1.13). The enzymatic formation of 2-chloroethyl and 2-bromoethyl esters of oleic, linoleic, linolenic, and arachidonic acids was confirmed by proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and chemical ionization mass spectrometry. 2-Bromoethanol was a better substrate than 2-chloroethanol for fatty acid esterification using cholesterol ester hydrolase. Among the chloroethanols, 2-chloroethanol was a better substrate than 2,2-dichloroethanol and 2,2,2-trichloroethanol. The saturated fatty acids (palmitic and stearic) showed a small amount of ester formation when cholesterol ester hydrolase was used. The kinetics of haloethanol and oleic acid incorporation into haloethyl oleate catalyzed by cholesterol ester hydrolase were determined. In vitro experiments were also conducted to study the conjugation of haloethanols with fatty acids using rat liver microsomes. The saturated fatty acid (palmitic) was more reactive compared to unsaturated fatty acid (oleic) when haloethanols were used. The results using rat liver microsomes were in contrast to those obtained when cholesterol ester hydrolase was used. The synthesis, purification, and characterization of 2-chloroethyl and 2-bromoethyl esters of oleic, linoleic, linolenic, and arachidonic acids are also described.
OBJECTIVE To synthesis nimorazole.METHODS Nimorazole was prepared by reaction of morpholine with 2-chloroethanol,via chlorination,and condensed with 4(5)-nitro-imidazole in the presence of phase-transfer catalyst.RESULTS The structure was identified by mp.,IR and 1H-NMR.CONCLUSION The process can be easily controlled and suitable for a scale production.
The original goal of the research described in this thesis was to develop a biological process for the removal of vinyl chloride from waste gases. The gaseous and carcinogenic vinyl chloride is used to produce the plastic polyvinyl chloride (PVC). During this production process waste gases containing vinyl chloride are generated. As a microorganism capable of growth on vinyl chloride as the sole carbon and energy source had been isolated it was envisaged that it might be possible to remove vinyl chloride from waste gases with a biological process. Besides the original strain, Mycobacterium L1, three additional vinyl chlorideutilizing strains were isolated subsequently. All strains were tentatively identified as Mycobacterium aurum. The first step in vinyl chloride metabolism in strain L1, was shown to be the oxidation of vinyl chloride to the corresponding epoxide, chlorooxirane, by alkene monooxygenase. Chlorooxirane is also the product of vinyl chloride oxidation in the human liver and is responsible for the carcinogenic properties of vinyl chloride. Alkene monooxygenase is also present in Mycobacterium E3 after growth on ethene. Extracts from strain E3 could be fractionated yielding two fractions which upon combination exhibited alkene monooxygenase activity, indicating that the enzyme consists of at least two components. One fraction was inhibited by acetylene, indicating it contained the oxygenase component of alkene monooxygenase, whereas the other fraction contained significant reductase activity. The corresponding fractions could also be obtained from extracts of vinyl chloride- grown cells of strain L1, Alkene monooxygenase appeared to be similar to the soluble three-component methane monooxygenases. These enzymes also oxidize alkenes to the corresponding epoxides. The capacity of alkene monooxygenase to oxidize vinyl chloride to the mutagenic and toxic chlorooxirane was exploited to generate and select monooxygenase mutants of the ethene-utilizing strain E3. As long as cells exhibit monooxygenase activity they produce chlorooxirane from vinyl chloride and are hampered in their growth. However, when monooxygenase activity is lost, due to a mutation, these cells are no longer inhibited by the presence of vinyl chloride. Using this technique a mutant of strain E3 no longer capable of growth on ethene was isolated. Subsequently, it was shown that this mutant lacks the reductase component of alkene monooxygenase. Growth of the mutant on epoxyethane (oxirane) resulted in synthesis of the other alkene monooxygenase component(s). Extracts of such cells could be used to detect and subsequently purify the reductase component of alkene monooxygenase. During growth of strain L1, on vinyl chloride in chemostat cultures it became evident that the original mineral salts medium was not optimal. The addition of extra iron to the medium resulted in an enhanced vinyl chloride consumption. Chemostat cultures were also used to determine to what levels vinyl chloride could be removed. This type of experiment was also done with the Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 isolated by D.B. Janssen (University of Groningen) to determine 1,2-dichloroethane removal from air. 1,2-Dichloroethane is the precursor in the major production process of vinyl chloride. The concentrations of both compounds in the air that had passed through the cultures were significantly higher than the maximal allowable concentrations in waste gases according to the German legislation (TA-Luft). Therefore the affinity of both strains towards the respective substrates is too low to apply them in waste-gas treatment. The enzyme transforming chlorooxirane appeared to be very unstable. After a short interruption in the supply of vinyl chloride to a culture of strain L1, inactivation took place upon restoring the vinyl chloride supply to the culture. This is probably caused by chlorooxirane accumulation due to an insufficient activity of the chlorooxirane transforming enzyme after such an interruption in the supply of vinyl chloride. The chlorooxirane subsequently inactivates cell components including alkene monooxygenase. Based on the observed inactivation and the relatively low affinity for vinyl chloride it was concluded that development of a process to remove vinyl chloride based on the application of Mycobacterium aurum L1, was not feasible. As the formation of chlorooxirane is one of the major drawbacks of strain L1, microorganisms were isolated on compounds structurally related to vinyl chloride. Using this approach we hoped to isolate strains which add a water molecule to the double bond of vinyl chloride, resulting in formation 2-chloroethanol or acetaldehyde. 3-Chloroacrylic acid and styrene were used as vinyl chloride analogues in enrichment cultures. The enrichment cultures with 3-chloroacrylic acid did indeed result in the isolation of bacteria which hydrated the double bond of 3-chloroacrylic as the initial step in the degradation pathway of this compound. Unfortunately these enzymes did not exhibit any activity with vinyl chloride as substrate. With styrene as carbon source a number of microorganisms were isolated. Almost all of these isolates oxidized the unsaturated alifatic moiety of styrene yielding styrene oxide (phenyloxirane). The flavine adenine dinucleotide- dependent styrene monooxygenase has a high substrate specificity, only oxidizing phenyl substituted alkenes. In contrast to alkene monooxygenase the enzyme appears to require only one component for activity. Besides vinyl chloride, biodegradation of methyl chloride, the simplest chlorinated hydrocarbon was studied. Methyl chloride-grown cells of the isolated Hyphomicrobium strain MC1 could dechlorinate methyl chloride only under aerobic conditions. Simple hydrolytic dehalogenation was therefore not taking place. No methane monooxygenase activity could be detected in methyl chloride-grown cells. To be able to study a bioreactor for the removal of a chlorinated hydrocarbon from air, dichloromethane was selected as model contaminant. Dichloromethane is applied on a large scale as a solvent and consequently is present in numerous industrial waste gases. The strains isolated and characterized by the group of Th. Leisinger (ETH Zurich), as well as a new isolate, were shown to have a much better affinity towards dichloromethane than the value published for the purified dehalogenase. Due to this high affinity these microorganisms can be applied to remove dichloromethane to concentrations well below the maximal allowable levels in waste gases. A 0.066 m 3trickle-bed bioreactor was studied for the elimination of dichloromethane from waste gases. The reactor was filled with a polypropylene packing material on which a biofilm developed. The air containing dichloromethane was forced through the reactor counter-current to a circulating aqueous phase. The aqueous phase is used to neutralize and remove the hydrochloric acid formed during dichloromethane degradation. The biological system was very stable and not sensitive to fluctuations in the dichloromethane supply. Dichloromethane elimination with the trickle-bed bioreactor was determined at various gas and liquid flows and dichloromethane concentrations. It was possible to simulate the observed dichloromethane elimination efficiencies surprisingly well with a model incorporating Michaelis-Menten kinetics, diffusion in the biofilm and mass-transfer resistance in the gaseous as well as the liquid phase. On the basis of the experimental results it was concluded that removal of dichloromethane is technically feasible with the trickle-bed reactor.
Abstract An analytical procedure for the estimation of urinary oxalate is described which satisfies the requirements of specificity, recovery, and negligible generation of oxalate from progenitors. The procedure involves precipitation of oxalate from urine as the calcium salt and subsequent diesterification with 2-chloroethanol. The derivative is detected by electron capture-gas chromatography with [ 14 C]oxalate used as a recovery standard. The electron-capture response is linear over the range of 5 to 40 μg carried through the procedure. The coefficient of variation in replicate aliquots over the entire range is 7%. Total urinary oxalate excretion for the periods 0800–1200, 1200–1600, and 1600-0800 h on the following day were determined for each of eight volunteers over periods of 5 or 7 days. The mean excretion of oxalate was 35.6 ± 11.9 mg/day. There was no suggestion of a diurnal pattern in oxalate excretion. Oxalate levels in dog plasma, as determined by the electron capture-gas chromatographic procedure, were high (∼0.7 μg/ml) compared to theoretical oxalate levels (0.1 to 0.2 μg/ml) as estimated from the renal clearance of [ 13 C]oxalate or [ 14 C]oxalate. These data clearly indicate that oxalogenesis occurs during the assay of plasma, even under the mildest of separation conditions.
The ter- and tetradentate N-alkoxyalkyl-β-ketoimines CH 3 C(O)CH 2 C(NCH 2 CHROH)CH 3 {L 1 - 3 } react with diethylaluminum chloride to afford the dimeric chloride bridged complexes [{L 1 - 3 )AlCl] 2 (1a-c), which are activated by addition of propylene oxide or cyclohexene oxide to afford efficient initiators for the ring-opening polymerization of (D,L)-lactide. The active species is believed to be a chloroalkoxide formed by nucleophilic ring opening of a coordinated PO by migration of the chloride coordinated to the adjacent aluminum center. The resulting polymers have a high molecular weight, close to that calculated for the monomer:initiator ratio of 100, and a narrow molecular weight distribution. While the corresponding aluminum methyl dimer [{L 1 )AlMe] 2 (2a), formed by reaction of L 1 (R = H) with AlMe 3 , is a poor inititaor for the polymeriation of (D,L)-lactide, addition of 2-chloroethanol affords a catalyst with an activity comparable to that of la/PO. The molecular weight and molecular weight distribution of the resulting polylactide is similar to that obtained with 1a/PO and consistent with formation of a similar chloroalkoxide initiator.
Abstract The circular dichroism spectra were obtained for purified equine, human and bovine membrane glycoproteins, which have 40, 55 and 70% carbohydrate, respectively. The spectra in aqueous buffer show similar shapes, maxima and minima but somewhat different peak amplitudes. Analysis of the spectra indicated that the glycoproteins can be pictured as existing primarily in an unordered form in dilute aqueous buffer with small amounts of α-helix (13–23%) present. In 2-chloroethanol, a helix-promoting solvent, the amount of α-helix is increased to 60–70%. The glycoproteins underwent denaturation in guanidine hydrochloride, although evidence of some residual structure did remain. The spectra of the glycoproteins change relatively little on going from aqueous buffer to dodecylsulfate solutions. Removal of 60% of the sialic acid does not induce significant conformational alterations. The anomalous behavior of the glycoproteins during molecular weight determinations does not appear to be related primarily to conformational restrictions on the polypeptide chain.
The production of hydrogen by anaerobic photocatalytic reforming degradation of aqueous 2-chloroethanol (chloroethanol, shortened form in the following text) solution has been investigated using a Pt/TiO_2 catalyst. The effect of kinetic factor such as chloroethanol concentration, catalyst surface chemical state, and pH of systems on the photocatalytic production of hydrogen have been studied in detail. The catalyst and the products were characterized by HNMR? XRD and XPS techniques, and the possible photoreaction mechanism was discussed. Both hydrogen production and photocatalytic reforming degradation of aqueous chloroethanol solution have been achieved using a Pt/TiO_2 catalyst. The Pt particles which has been identified as Pt~0 state on the TiO_2 surface are beneficial to hydrogen production. The hydrogen production rate reaches the maximum at ～0.05 M of chloroethanol, the concentration of chloroethanol is (0.04～)0.1 M. The pH affects the hydrogen production rate significantly, and the optimum pH value and Pt loading is 4～10 and about 1.0%.
Poxvirus haemagglutinin has been separated into two components by ether/ ethanol extraction and also by column chromatography after treatment with 2-chloroethanol. One component, lipid in nature, carried the haemagglutinating activity. The other, a protein termed the antibody blocking component, carried the virus specificity.
Reaction of acyl iodides RC(O)I (R = Me, Ph) with alcohols R'OH (R' = Me, Et, i-Pr, t-Bu, CH2 = CHCH2, HC≡CCH2) provides in the corresponding organyl iodides R'I. Unlike that 2-chloroethanol and phenol (R' = CH2CH2Cl, Ph) react with RC(O)I in the same way as with acyl chlorides yielding esters RCO2R'. This reaction path occurs partially also with methanol and ethanol.
A precise, accurate and stable method for quantification of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) in ovine whole blood is presented and validated. The method is based on esterification of plasma SCFA by reaction with chloroethyl chloroformate in a water/acetonitrile/2-chloroethanol solution and gas chromatographic (GC) analysis of the derivatives. Whole blood concentrations of SCFA could be obtained by correcting plasma concentrations for a 45% dilution space of SCFA in the erythrocyte fraction of the blood. The recovery of SCFA in plasma and whole blood was 96-100% independent of the haematocrit value when compared with water standards. The method avoided carry-over from sample to sample, contrary to earlier published methods. The average intra-assay and inter-assay coefficient of variation for repeated measurement of SCFA content in plasma samples was 2.5% and 3.1%, respectively. The derivative was found to be suitable for a precise and accurate determination of the 13
Abstract The infrared-induced isomerisation of 2-chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol and 2-iodo-ethanol was studied in argon, nitrogen and methane matrices. Isomerisation was observed to occur only in argon matrices and was about three times slower for 2-bromoethanol than for 2-chloroethanol, whilst it was too slow to measure for 2-iodoethanol under the conditions used. The complex multiplet features observed in the CX stretching region have been interpreted in terms of isomerisation from the predominant Gg′ conformer to a mixture of Tt and Tg conformers in highly dilute matrices, while in concentrated matrices distinct bands due to multimers of the Tt or Tg conformer were identified.
Abstract The interactions of N -methylpyrrole, MPY, with hexafluoroisopropanol, HFIP, trifluoroethanol, TFE, 2-chloroethanol, CLE, and 1-butanol, BU, have been studied by FTIR measurements and ab initio calculations. The experiments, carried out on the OH stretching band of the alcohols, proved the formation of 1:1 stoichiometric hydrogen-bonded complexes in which the OH group acts as H-donor and the aromatic ring as acceptor. DFT calculations with the B3LYP functional and the 6-31++ G** basis sets found minima, for all the complexes, with T-shape geometries, where the OH group of the alcohol points to the C-3 in the aromatic ring of MPY. The experimental association constants and the shifts of the OH bands showed a decrease as the H-donor ability of the alcohol diminishes. These parameters are in qualitative agreement with the stabilization energies and frequency-shifts theoretically calculated. Measurements carried out in different solvents showed that the solvent polarity affects the association constant values, but the shifts of the associated bands keep unchanged.
Abstract Reaction of sodium polystyrylsulfinate 1 with 2-chloroethanol gave the 2-arylsulfonyl ethanol resin 2 , which was converted to the polymer-supported amine 5 . Amine 5 was coupled with an isocyanate or an isothiocyanate to give the polymer-supported urea derivatives 6 . Treatment of the resin 6 with 6N HCl gave hydantoins 7 , while reaction of the same resin with 4N NaOH then HCl gave the urea derivatives 8 .
The Si-H groups of 25,26,27,28-tetrakis[4-(tris(dimethylsilyl)methyl)butoxy]calix[4]arene (II) were treated with methanol, ethanol, propanol, butanol, pentanol, hexanol, isopropanol, 1-methyl propanol, 2-methylpropanol and 2-chloroethanol in the presence of Karstedt catalyst (platinum(0)-1,3-divinyl-1,1,3,3-tetramethyldisiloxane complex, solution in xylene) to give the corresponding 25,26,27,28-tetrakis[4-(tris(alkoxydimethylsilyl)methyl)butoxy]calix[4]arene. It is found that alcoholysis of calix[4]arene 1 in the presence of Speier catalyst (H2PtCl6.6H2O) was unsuccessful using reflux conditions over seven days. In addition, the rate of alcoholysis is dependent on the amounts of the catalyst and reaction temperature.
Shortly after the discovery of heavy water by Vrey, Bric kwedde, and Murphy [1] 2 in 1932, it was shown by Lewis and Schutz [2] that acids are weaker in deuterium oxide than they are in ordinary water as solvent. For example, th e di ssociation co nstant of chloroacetic acid was found to be 2.7 tim es greater in ordinary wat e r than in heavy water. From this study and the work of LaMer and hi s colleagues [3, 4, 5] and of Martin and Butler [6] , it appears that the differenc e in pK value, 6.pK= pK (in D2 0)-pK (in H20), increases approximately linearly with an increase in pK (in H20). Thi s r elation has been ascribed [7] to a difference in zero-point energy between the isotopes in the acid molec ules or perhaps [8] to a differe nce in zero-point e nergy between th e hydrogen-bonded molecules and th e solvent. Th us, 6.pK = 0.43 for c hloroac etic acid, 0.50 for benzoic acid [5] , and 0.56 for p-nitrophenol [6] . Figure 1 is a plot of these pK differences for 11 acids from measurem e nts made prior to 1940. iodi c, oxalic (both stages of dissociation), y-resorcyli c, phosphoric (first stage), chloroacetic, sali cyli c, 111-nitrobe nzoic, and glycolic acids and for 2,4-and 2,6-dinitrophenol and 0-and p-nitrophe noL A plot of th eir data gives points not far from th e straight lin e in fi gure 1. Curry and Hugus [9] have found 6.pK = 0.60 for the second stage of dissociation of carbonic acid, giving a point not far from th e straight line drawn in figure 1_ This is true also for the data for 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol and 2-chloroethanol [10] . McDougall and Long [11] have determin e d the pK differences for 13 acids-I Prese nt ad dress: De p a '"tll1c nl of C he mi s try. Stat e University of New York at Bin ghamton , Bingh amton , Ne w Y ork 13901. 2 Fi gu res in brac ket s indi ca te th e lit e rature referen ces at th e cnd of this paper. Other results, however, do not always support this relationship. For phosphoric acid, pKl = 2.148 (in H20), McDougall and Long found I1pK = 0.234, in contrast to the value of I1pK = 0.438 predicted from figure 1. For salicylic acid, with pK = 2.996 (in H20), I1pK = 0.75, whereas I1pK = 0.46 would be consistent with the plot in figure 1 ; this discrepancy may well be due to the abnormal amount of hydrogen bonding in salicylic acid. Although, more recently, Glasoe [12] has found I1pK = 0.56 for salicylic acid, this is still higher than one would expect from figure 1.
Seed dormancy can hinder stand establishment and delay progress of genetic and plant improvement studies. Our objective was to evaluate the effect of 2 chemical seed treatments on germination and on emergence and survival of 3 warm-season grasses. Freshly harvested seed of kleingrass (Panicum coloratum L.) weeping lovegrass [Eragrostis curvula (Schrad.) Nees] and wilman lovegrass (Eragrostis superba Peyr.) were treated with concentrated H2SO4 or a 2-chloroethanol sodium hypochlorite (CHL) solution and then germinated on blotters or planted in a commercial peat-vermiculite mix. The 3 grasses responded differently to acid and CHL treatment. Acid treatment increased germination of all 3 species but did not increase the emergence and/or 2 week establishment of weeping or wilman lovegrass. The difference between germination and emergence appeared related to chemical injury from the acid treatment that adversely impacted seedling growth and development. Weeping lovegrass responded to CHL treatment with increased germination and emergence. Wilman lovegrass did not respond well to either chemical.
Abstract:5-(p-β-D-glucoseaminophenyl)-10, 15, 20-triphenyl porphyrin (3) and 5-(p-hydroxyethy laminophenyl)-10,15,20-triphenyl porphyrin(4) were synthetized by reactions of 1-bromo-2, 3,4, 6-O-aceto-β-Dglucose (1) or 2-chloroethanol with 5-(p-amino phenyl)-10,15,20-triphenyl porphyrin(2), respectively. This process has the advantages of convenient manipulation, mild reaction conditions, and simple purifying method.
Abstract The diaminocarbene complexes cis -Cl 2 (PPh 3 )Pt[ CN(Bu t )CH 2 CH 2 N H] (1) and cis -Cl 2 Pt[ CN(C 6 H 4 -p-OMe)CH 2 CH 2 N H] 2 (2) have been prepared by reaction of the corresponding isocyanide derivatives with aziridine/ClCH 2 CH 2 NH 3 + Cl − and aziridine alone, respectively. The aminooxycarbene complex cis -Cl 2 Pt[ CN(C 6 H 4 -p-OMe)CH 2 CH 2 O ] 2 (3) has been prepared by reaction of the bis-isocyanide derivative with 2-chloroethanol/n-BuLi. The dimeric complexes {(PPh 3 )BrPd[μ- CN(Me)CH 2 CH 2 N  C,N ]} 2 (4), {(PPh 3 )ClPd[μ- CN (C 6 H 4 - p -OMe)CH 2 CH 2 N C,N ]} 2 (5), {(PPh 3 )ClPt[μ- CN(C 6 H 4 -p-OMe)CH 2 CH 2 N  C,N ]} 2 (6) have been prepared by deprotonation reaction of the NH group of the corresponding mononuclear derivatives with n-BuLi. The X-ray structure of {(PPh 3 )ClPt[μ- COCH 2 CH 2 N  C,N ]} 2 (7) is reported. The structural model was refined to R=0.055 (R w =0.061) for 7442 independent reflections. Crystal data: triclinic, space group P , a =19.564(3), b =16.497(3), c =13.243(2) A, α=88.93(3), β=97.88(3), γ=91.97(3)° Z =4. The crystal contains two crystallographically independent dimer units and a disordered dichloroethane molecule. Each dimer is formed by two bridging carbene ligands which are coordinated to one platinum on one side via a PtN bond and to the second platinum via a PtC bond. The coordination geometry around each platinum atom is an irregular square with deviations in the tetrahedral direction of the bonded atoms. The anodic behaviour of these and related monocarbene, dicarbene or dinuclear dicarbene complexes has been studied by cyclic voltammetry and controlled potential electrolysis in aprotic media and shown to present irreversible oxidation waves commonly with a multi-electron character (up to four electrons) and involving liberation of protons (in a number similar to that of the transfered electrons) conceivably resulting from anodically induced NH or CH bond cleavage, the former at an amino group and the latter occurring at methylene groups activated by adjacent amino- or oxy-carbene moieties.
The dehalogenation of 2-chloroethanol (2ClEtOH) in the gas phase with and without the participation of catalytic water molecules has been investigated using methods rooted into the density functional theory. The well-known HCl elimination leading to vinyl alcohol (VA) was compared to the alternative elimination route toward oxirane and shown to be kinetically and thermodynamically more favorable. However, the isomerization of VA to acetaldehyde in the gas phase, in the absence of water, was shown to be kinetically and thermodynamically less favorable than the recombination of VA and HCl to form the isomeric 1-chloroethanol (1ClEtOH) species. At the ωB97X-D/cc-pVTZ level of calculation, this species is more stable than 2ClEtOH by about 6 kcal mol–1 at 298 K, and the reaction barrier for VA to 1ClEtOH is 23 kcal mol–1 versus 55 kcal mol–1 for the direct transformation of VA to acetaldehyde. In a successive step, 1ClEtOH can decompose directly to acetaldehyde and HCl with a lower barrier (29 kcal mol–1) than...
The viscosimetric behaviour and the preferential solvation of poly(methacrylic acid), (PMA, poly(1-carboxy-1-methylethylene)) and poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate), (PHEMA, poly[1-(2-hydroxyethoxycarbonyl)-1-methylethylene]) in water/2-chloroethanol mixtures were studied. The system PHEMA/water/2-chloroethanol is a typical polymer/solvent/precipitant system in which 2-chloroethanol is preferentially solvated in the whole range of solubility. On the contrary, the system PMA/water/2-chloroethanol is a typical cosolvent system which exhibits the so-called inverse adsorption. This difference is attributed to the more hydrophilic character of the carbonyl group in PMA.
Seed dormancy can hinder stand establishment and delay progress of genetic and plant improvement studies. Our objective was to evaluate the effect of 2 chemical seed treatments on germination and on emergence and survival of 3 warm-season grasses. Freshly harvested seed of kleingrass (Panicurn coloratum L.) weeping lovegrass [Erugrostis curvula (Schrad.) Nees] and wilman lovegrass (Eragrostis superba Peyr.) were treated with concentrated &SO4 or a 2-chloroethanol sodium hypochlorite (CEIL) solution and then germinated on blotters or planted in a commercial peat-vermiculite mix. The 3 grasses responded differently to acid and CHL treatment. Acid treatment increased germination of all 3 species but did not increase the emergence and/or 2 week establishment of weeping or wilman lovegrass. The difference between germination and emergence appeared related to chemical injury from the acid treatment that adversly impacted seedling growth and development. Weeping lovegrass responded to CHL treatment with increased germination and emergence. Wilman lovegrass did not respond well to either chemical.
The dehalogenation of 2-chloroethanol (2ClEtOH) in gas phase with and without participation of catalytic water molecules has been investigated using methods rooted into the density functional theory. The well-known HCl elimination leading to vinyl alcohol (VA) was compared to the alternative elimination route towards oxirane and shown to be kinetically and thermodynamically more favorable. However, the isomerization of VA to acetaldehyde in the gas phase, in the absence of water, was shown to be kinetically and thermodynamically less favorable than the recombination of VA and HCl to form the isomeric 1-chloroethanol (1ClEtOH) species. This species is more stable than 2ClEtOH by about 6 kcal mol ). The calculations were repeated using a single ancillary water molecule (W) in the complexes 2ClEtOH_W and 1ClEtOH_W. The latter adduct is now more stable than 2ClEtOH_W by about 8 kcal mol -1 , implying that the water molecule increased the already higher stability of 1ClEtOH in the gas phase. However, this catalytic water molecule lowers dramatically the barrier for the interconversion of VA to acetaldehyde (from 55 to 6 kcal mol -1
The purpose of this work was to study the mechanism of the dehalogenation of 2-chloroethanol (2ClEtOH) in the gas phase (complete absence of water) and in a cluster where only one ancillary water molecule Is present. The goal is to assess carefully the interplay between the reaction channels leading to oxirane and to vinyl alcohol in the absence of water and in the presence of only one catalytic water molecule. In particular, we wanted to assess whether acetaldehyde is directly obtained from vinyl alcohol when water molecules are absent.
The results obtained in this study suggest that a rarely studied isomer of 2-chloroethanol, 1-chloroethanol (1ClEtOH), may play a role in the interconversion, because the Markovnikoff addition of HCl to give 1ClEtOH has a much lower barrier than the direct conversion of VA to acetaldehyde in the absence of catalysts. We found that dehalogenation of 1ClEtOH leads directly to acetaldehyde by abstraction of the oxygen on the hydroxyl atom, contrary to the dehalogenation of 2ClEtOH, where the hydrogen atom involved in the HCl product is attached initially to a carbon atom. The presence of just a single water molecule produces a nine-fold decrease of the barrier for the conversion of VA to acetaldehyde, making this route more favorable than that going through 1ClEtOH, even if the latter is also accelerated by the presence of water.
Abstract Cardiovascular effects have often been found in 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) intoxicated patients, but the 2-CE elicits cardiovascular toxicity mechanism is not clear. Recently, we have found that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) accumulation in 2-CE-intoxicated rat’s blood and play an important role in 2-CE intoxication. In this study, we used an isolated rat atrium model to examine the cardiotoxicity of 2-CE and CAA. Results indicated that 2-CE did not cause tension arrest in isolated rat right atria, but CAA did. 2-CE caused tension inhibition in the isolated rat left atria. In addition, CAA caused significant tension inhibition and contracture in the isolated rat left atria. Nifedipine, an L-type calcium channel blocker, decreased CAA-induced tension inhibition and contracture. Meanwhile, atrial nNOS and calmodulin (CaM) had significantly greater expression in the 2-CE group and the CAA group than control group. Nifedipine could decrease CAA-induced nNOS and CaM expression. 2-CE-induced cardiovascular toxicity might be due to its metabolite CAA. CAA-induced cardiovascular toxicity might be mediated by calcium channel and nifedipine protected against nNOS-triggered cardiovascular effects.
Abstract Measurements of the refractive index n D of (1,2-dichloroethane + 2-chloroethanol) in the temperature range 273.15 K ≤ T ≤ 343.15 K have been carried out for the purpose of checking the suitability of some empirical models of the type n D = n ( T ), n = n ( x i ), and n = n ( T , x i ) for the correlation and interpolation of experimental data to cover existing gaps. Furthermore, the experimental data have been used to calculate excess properties such as Δ n D , R E , and the excess Kirkwood parameter Δ g over the entire composition range. The results obtained have been discussed and interpreted in terms of the type and nature of the specific intermolecular interactions between the components.
Abstract The ultrasonic velocity ( u ) and density ( ρ ) of binary liquid mixtures of formamide (FA) and N-methylformamide (NMF) with 2-chloroethanol (2-CletOH) have been measured at temperatures 298.15, 308.15 and 318.15 K, over the entire composition range. From the experimental values of ultrasonic velocity and density, the various acoustical parameters have been evaluated. The excess values of ultrasonic velocity ( u E ), adiabatic compressibility ( β S E ) and molar volume ( V m E ) were also calculated. Further, the infrared spectra of both of the systems, FA + 2-CletOH and NMF + 2-CletOH, have been recorded at room temperature (298.15 K).
[reaction: see text] Nonenolizable aldehydes and ketones react with 2-chloroethanol and 3-chloropropanol under basic conditions (t-BuOK, DMF/THF) with formation of 2-substituted 1,3-dioxolanes and 1,3-dioxanes, respectively. Conversion of the two-step addition-alkylation process depends on the electrophilicity of the carbonyl group that governs the equilibrium of addition of chloroalkoxides. This method of protection of carbonyl groups in the form of cyclic acetals under kinetically controlled conditions is complementary to the acid-catalyzed reaction with diols.
Abstract The intermolecular interactions between 2-chloroaniline + substituted ethanol binary liquid systems were studied both at the macro- and microscopic levels using a combined experimental and computational methodology. Thermophysical properties of 2-chloroaniline (2CA) and 2-aminoethanol (2AE), 2-chloroethanol (2CE), 2-phenylethanol (2PE) binary mixtures are studied at ambient atmospheric pressure over the entire composition range and at T = (303.15 K–318.15 K). Excess properties derived from the experimental ones were correlated using Redlich-Kister (RK) equation, for binary mixtures. In the present study the calculated excess properties are discussed in terms of molecular interactions of binary mixtures. The existence of the hydrogen bonding in the binary mixtures of 2-chloroaniline with substituted ethanol's were further conformed by high level theoretical calculation namely, the density functional theory (DFT-B3LYP) of 6-311 ++G (d, p) basis set was used to study the geometries, bond characteristics, interaction energies and noncovalent interaction plots (NCI) of the hydrogen bonded complexes in gas phase were investigated via quantum chemical calculations.
Urea-induced equilibrium unfolding of human serum albumin (HSA) when studied by mean residue ellipticity at 222 nm (MRE 2 2 2 ) or intrinsic fluorescence measurements showed a two-step, three-state transition with a stableintermediate around 4.6-5.2 M urea. The presence of 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol (TFE) resulted in a single-step, two-state transition with a significant shift towards higher urea concentration, suggesting the stabilizing effect of TFE. The free energy of stabilization (ΔΔG D H 2 O ) in the presence of 3.0 M TFE was determined to be 2.68 and 2.72 kcal/mol by MRE 2 2 2 and fluorescence measurements, respectively. The stabilizing potential of other alcohols on the refolding behavior of HSA at 5.0 M urea (where the intermediate exists) as studied by MRE 2 2 2 and intrinsic fluorescence measurements showed the following order: 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoroisopropanol (HFIP) > TFE > 2-chloroethanol > tert-butanol > iso-propanol > ethanol > methanol. Further, the extent of refolding at the highest concentration of alcohol was similar in all cases. The stabilizing effect of TFE on guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl)-induced unfolding of HSA was nearly equal to that found for urea denaturation, as reflected in the ΔΔG D H 2 O value (2.38 kcal/mol). Taken together, these results suggest that the stabilizing effect of TFE and other alcohols on urea/GdnHCl-induced unfolding of HSA is higher for alcohols that contain bulky groups or fluorine atoms.
1-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-3-nitro-1, 2, 4-triazole (hnt), prepared by alkylation of 3-nitro-1, 2, 4-triazole with 2-chloroethanol, was found to react with copper(II) chloride and copper(II) perchlorate in acetonitrile/ethanol solutions giving complexes [Cu2(hnt)2Cl4(H2O)2] and[Cu(hnt)2(H2O)3](ClO4)2, respectively. They are the first examples of coordination compounds with a neutral N-substituted 3-nitro-1, 2, 4-triazole ligand. 1-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-3-nitro-1, 2, 4-triazole and the obtained complexes were characterized by NMR and IR spectroscopy, X-ray, and thermal analyses. [Cu2(hnt)2Cl4(H2O)2] presents a dinuclear chlorido-bridged complex in which hnt acts as a chelating bidentate ligand, coordinated to the metal by a nitrogen atom of the triazole ring and an oxygen atom of the nitro group, and the copper atoms are inconsiderably distorted octahedral coordination. [Cu(hnt)2(H2O)3](ClO4)2comprises a mononuclear complex cation, in which two nitrogen atoms of two hnt ligands in trans configuration and three water oxygen atoms form a square pyramidal environment around the copper atom, which is completed to an distorted octahedron with a bifurcated vertex due to two additional elongated Cu–O bonds with two nitro groups. In both complexes, Cu–O bonds with the nitro groups may be considered as semi-coordinated.
Proteolipid apoprotein (PLP) isolated from human brain was reconstituted in dioleoylphosphatidylcholine vesicles by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol, using a dialysis buffer of pH 5.0. Under these conditions, and in contrast with dialysis carried out at pH 7.4, well-defined unilamellar vesicles containing the protein were formed. As judged by electron microscopy and quasi-elastic light scattering, the size of the vesicles was determined by the initial protein/lipid ratio used for reconstitution. When the vesicles were incubated in a buffer at neutral pH, aggregation of the vesicles was observed, but their structure remained intact. Asymmetric aggregation occurred when the reconstituted vesicles were incubated with large unilamellar vesicles (LUVs) devoid of protein. This aggregation was accompanied by loss of membrane integrity, as revealed by extensive leakage of the LUVs, and by membrane lipid dilution, indicative of the occurrence of membrane fusion. Destabilization of the vesicles depended on the presence of negatively charged phosphatidylserine in the membrane of the LUVs. Similar effects, but to a lesser extent, were seen when the LUVs contained sulphatide, a negatively charged lipid prominently present in myelin. DM 20, a natural mutant of PLP, appeared to be far less potent in causing membrane lipid dilution than PLP. This could suggest that a distinct protein sequence of PLP, which is absent from DM 20, may be involved in triggering the observed membrane destabilization. Temperature-dependent experiments indicate that this sequence in PLP displays dynamic properties, its exposure being affected by conformational criteria. Exposure of this particular domain, in conjunction with its affinity for negatively charged lipid, could be related to a perturbation of the integrity of the myelin sheath, as will be discussed.
The groundwater aquifer underneath a chemical manufacturing plant in Southeast Texas has been contaminated by the leachate from its landfill. Based on computer simulations, the current air flow rate used in the air-stripping unit is about 10 times higher than the calculated flow rate if bis(2-chloroethyl) ether (DCEE) is excluded. This excessive air flow rate has caused maintenance problems and a higher energy consumption. It was proposed to treat the contaminated groundwater by air stripping to remove the volatile compounds and by UV/H{sub 2}O{sub 2} oxidation to destruct the low-volatility compounds such as DCEE. Experimental data from the UV peroxidation of DCEE in aqueous solution indicated the rate equation is 0.163[DCEE]{sup 0.61}[H{sub 2}O{sub 2}]{sup 0.54}. Important intermediates identified are 2-chloroethyl acetate, an enolic tautomer of 2-chloroethyl acetate, 2-chloroethoxyethene, 2-chloroethanol, acetaldehyde, ethylene oxide, and chloroethene. All the intermediates could be reduced to undetectable levels after 30 min of irradiation when DCEE/H{sub 2}O{sub 2} initial ratio of 1/10 was used. A reaction mechanism with complex pathways through both the attack of hydroxy free radical and the direct photolysis on DCEE was proposed. Intermediate identification and the rate equation suggested that the pathways in which DCEE is attacked by hydroxy free radicals aremore » predominant. The rate equation derived from this mechanism predicted the peroxidation of DCEE is half-order with respect to both DCEE and H{sub 2}O{sub 2} concentrations.« less
The interaction of spectrin, a peripheral cytoplasmic protein of the erythrocyte membrane, with synthetic phospholipids was characterized by density gradient centrifugation, electron microscopy, and the paramagnetic resonance of nitroxide spin labels. The organic solvent 2-chloroethanol, which favors the stability of hydrophobic surfaces on proteins, was utilized in the formation of the protein-lipid systems. Spectrin, upon dialysis to remove 2-chloroethanol, was found to associate into extensive network-like aggregates and in the presence of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, the spectrin aggregates were found to associate with liposomes formed during dialysis. This interaction, which was significantly enhanced by the presence of dipalmitoylphosphatidylethanolamine, was found to reduce the mobility of fatty acid spin labels incorporated into the lipid regions of the lipid-protein associations. Evidence was found which suggests that spectrin tends to stabilize the phospholipid vesicles against fusion and decrease lipid mobility, particularly near the polar bilayer surfaces.
As an approach to learning more about structure-forming processes in chicken egg white lysozyme, the reduced protein was studied in the presence of methanol, 2-chloroethanol, trifluoroethanol, and sodium dodecyl sulfate, at various concentrations in aqueous solution. The mixtures were subjected to gel filtration chromatography, with circular dichroism (CD) examination of the resulting polymers and monomers. Changes in CD behavior, indicating development of ordered structure, were seen to be associated only with polymer formation. Contributing to these changes were increases in beta structure as well as alpha-helix. Since the solutes studied are known as helix formers, it is suggested that studies on many proteins, carried out in the presence of these and other structure-modifying solutes, may have been complicated by formation of beta structure as well as by polymerization. The reduced monomer formed no structure in the hydrophobic environment afforded by these solutes, but only randomized further. Thus, hydrophobic interactions may be of no significance to lysozyme chain folding in its early stages. As an alternative, the long range interactions stabilized by native tertiary cross links may be critical for the transition to native secondary structure.
A solvent-free procedure for the synthesis of 3-substituted indole derivates from indoles and nitroalkenes under ultrasound irradiation is described. Control experiments disclosed besides mechanical effects, namely agitation, sonochemical effects are the main forces to drive the reaction. In the method, 2-chloroethanol was used to prepare a wide variety of 3-substituted indole derivates. This procedure only need equimolar amounts of reaction substrates and can be readily scaled up.
The secondary structure of bovine αs-casein and chemically modified αs-casein in various solvents was investigated by infrared absorption spectrum and optical rotatory dispersion measurements. Amino groups of αs-casein were either succinylated or acetylated, and carboxyl groups were either methylated or ethylated. Acetylated- and ethylated-αs-caseins are insoluble in water. Water-soluble samples have unordered structure in water. In organic solvents, such as 2-chloroethanol and ethylene glycol, they have about 50% α-helical fraction. On the other hand, it was found that methylated-αs-casein had two infrared absorption peaks centered at 1625 and 1643 cm-1 in D2O-CH3OD mixed solvent. This fact may be connected with the presence of β-structure. In the case of solid film of this sample, cast from solution containing CH3OH, the presence of β-structure was indicated, too. The authors attempted to explain the formation of β-structure in methylated-αs-casein in terms of the electrostatic interactions due to the differences in the net charge between methylated and unmodified α3-caseins.
Residues of 2-chloroethyl fatty acid esters (CEEs) and 2-chloroethanol (ECH), by-products of ethylene oxide fumigation, were determined in black walnuts, seasoning mixes, and spices. Extracts containing ECH and CEE were cleaned up by previously described procedures, and residue levels were quantitatively determined using a gas chromatograph equipped with a halogen-selective electrolytic conductivity detector. All food products that contained CEE residues also contained ECH. ECH residues ranged from less than 0.2 to 880 ppm and were less than 0.2-7 times the CEE levels found.
The binding of 1,1-dichloroethane (1,1-DCE) to the substrate binding site of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450, and the stimulation of hepatic microsomal CO-inhibitable NADPH oxidation by 1,1-DCE and 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) were enhanced by induction with phenobarbital but not with beta-naphthoflavone. Incubation of the dichloroethanes with hepatic microsomes from phenobarbital-treated rats, NADPH-generating system and EDTA resulted in the conversion of 1,1-DCE to acetic acid and to a lesser extent to 2,2-dichloroethanol and probably also mono- and dichloroacetic acid and the conversion of 1,2-DCE to chloroacetaldehyde and to a lesser extent to chloroacetic acid and probably 2-chloroethanol. In addition, reaction mixtures constituted as described above resulted in slight but significant losses (ca. 13%) of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450. The omission of dichloroethane or the NADPH-generating system from incubation mixtures eliminated the above effects, and SKF-525A or CO diminished or eliminated the effects. Pathways for the metabolism of 1,1-DCE and 1,2-DCE are proposed.
This is the first case applying 2-haloethylamine to CO2 capture. The prospect of global warming and the urgent need to reduce atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide has prompted actions at many levels. The conventional capture of carbon dioxide is predominantly based on chemical absorption using ethanolamine. Recent developments of carbon dioxide capture focus on new materials, such as ionic liquids, zeolites, membranes, carbonaceous absorbents, and metal–organic frameworks. However, no unique solution exists currently to solve the problem of carbon dioxide capture. In order to examine the efficiency of 2-chloroethylamine as an absorbent of CO2, we treated an aqueous solution of 2-chloroethylamine hydrochloride with CO2 in the presence of an alkali, e.g., NaOH, under ambient conditions. The absorption was complete within 30 min, seemingly following first-order reaction kinetics. Furthermore, we succeeded in capturing CO2 from ambient air using 2-chloroethanolamine. The efficiency of 2-chloroethylamine as an absorbent of CO2 could be attributed to the production of stable 2-oxazolidinone, therefore, this reaction is favored thermodynamically. Compared with previously reported absorbents, this novel system is capable of capturing CO2 with an extremely high efficiency of 1 mol per mol absorbent under ambient conditions, even from the atmosphere. This potential method could be used to capture CO2 particularly from small, mobile, or low-concentration emission sources.
Abstract A 4 S α2-β1-glycoprotein was isolated from Cohn Fraction VI of pooled normal human plasma by chromatography on diethylaminoethyl- and carboxymethylcellulose, Sephadex A-50, and hydroxylapatite columns and by filtration through Sephadex G-100. The final preparation appeared homogeneous after starch gel and disc electrophoresis at pH 5.0 and 8.6. Physicochemical and chemical characterization of this plasma globulin revealed the following properties: molecular weight, approximately 60,000; sedimentation coefficient, 4.1 S; diffusion constant, 5.9 x 10-7 cm2·sec-1; frictional ratio, 1.50; axial ratio, approximately 8; electrophoretic mobility at pH 8.6, 3.9 x 10-5 cm2·sec-1·volt-1; isoelectric point at pH 4.0; and isoionic point at pH 4.9. The optical rotatory dispersion curve of the native protein revealed a trough with a maximum at 218 mµ. In 50% 2-chloroethanol, this maximum was shifted to approximately 232 mµ, whereas in 5 m urea the trough was noted at 211 mµ. The carbohydrate moiety accounted for approximately 30% of the total weight and consisted of neutral hexoses (galactose and mannose), glucosamine, sialic acid, and fucose. This glycoprotein contains one polypeptide chain as judged from terminal amino acid analyses (1 mole of carboxyl-terminal serine and 1 mole of amino-terminal arginine). The content of the 4 S α2-β1-glycoprotein in pooled normal human plasma was estimated to be approximately 20 mg/100 liters.
Proteolipid apoprotein (PLP) isolated from human brain was reconstituted in dioleoylphosphatidylcholine vesicles by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol, using a dialysis buffer of pH 5.0. Under these conditions, and in contrast with dialysis carried out at pH 7.4, well-defined unilamellar vesicles containing the protein were formed. As judged by electron microscopy and quasi-elastic light scattering, the size of the vesicles was determined by the initial protein/lipid ratio used for reconstitution. When the vesicles were incubated in a buffer at neutral pH, aggregation of the vesicles was observed, but their structure remained intact. Asymmetric aggregation occurred when the reconstituted vesicles were incubated with large unilamellar vesicles (LUVs) devoid of protein. This aggregation was accompanied by loss of membrane integrity, as revealed by extensive leakage of the LUVs, and by membrane lipid dilution, indicative of the occurrence of mem-
Abstract The results are reported of a study, by the near i.r. spectroscopic method, of the hydrogen bonding between 2-bromoethanol, 2-chloroethanol and 2-fluoroethanol, and hexamethylphosphortriamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, dibenzyl sulfoxide, di- p -tolyl sulfoxide and diphenyl sulfoxide in carbon tetrachloride at 288.15, 298.15, 308.15 and 318.15 K. The K 11 , Δ H °, Δ G ° and Δ S ° values for the complex formation show that the complex formation ability of the 2-halogen substituted ethanols is weak towards the selected electron donors and much weaker than found earlier for the corresponding 2,2,2-trihalogen substituted ethanols. The basicity order of the electron donors decreases in the order hexamethylphosphortriamide ⪢ dimethyl sulfoxide ⪢ dibenzyl sulfoxide ⪢ di- p -tolyl sulfoxide ⪢ diphenyl sulfoxide, while the proton donating ability of the halogenated alcohols is in the order 2-bromoethanol ⪢ 2-chloroethanol ⪢ 2-fluoroethanol. The p K a values of the alcohols determined in water are in the same order. Therefore the order of the complex formation ability is opposite to the acidity order in water.
Abstract Alcohol oxidase (alcohol:oxygen oxidoreductase) was crystallized from a methanolgrown yeast, Pichia sp. The crystalline enzyme is homogenous as judged from polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Alcohol oxidase catalyzed the oxidation of short-chain primary alcohols (C 1 to C 6 ), substituted primary alcohols (2-chloroethanol, 3-chloro-1-propanol, 4-chlorobutanol, isobutanol), and formaldehyde. The general reaction with an oxidizable substrate is as follows: Primary alcohol + O 2 → aldehyde + H 2 O 2 Formaldehyde + O 2 → formate + H 2 O 2 . Secondary alcohols, tertiary alcohols, cyclic alcohols, aromatic alcohols, and aldehydes (except formaldehyde) were not oxidized. The K m values for methanol and formaldehyde are 0.5 and 3.5 m m , respectively. The stoichiometry of substrate oxidized (alcohol or formaldehyde), oxygen consumed, and product formed (aldehyde or formate) is 1:1:1. The purified enzyme has a molecular weight of 300,000 as determined by gel filtration and a subunit size of 76,000 as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophoresis, indicating that alcohol oxidase consists of four identical subunits. The purified alcohol oxidase has absorption maxima at 460 and 380 nm which were bleached by the addition of methanol. The prosthetic group of the enzyme was identified as a flavin adenine dinucleotide. Alcohol oxidase activity was inhibited by sulfhydryl reagents ( p -chloromercuribenzoate, mercuric chloride, 5,5′-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoate, iodoacetate) indicating the involvement of sulfhydryl groups(s) in the oxidation of alcohols by alcohol oxidase. Hydrogen peroxide (product of the reaction), 2-aminoethanol (substrate analogue), and cupric sulfate also inhibited alcohol oxidase activity.
Carboxymethyl hydroxyethyl starch was made in the condition of alkaline catalysis by putting chloroacetic acid into hydroxyethyl starch which was produced by organic solvent reactions with the 2-chloroethanol as hydroxylating agent. In the preparation,we select the dosage of NaOH(1) ,the dosage of 2-chlorine ethanol,reaction time,the dosage of NaOH(2) ,the dosage of chloroacetic acid and the reaction temperature as the variables,substituting degree as the experiment index,using orthogonal experiment to optimize the preparation process.
Haloalkane dehalogenase from Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 catalyzes the conversion of 1,2-dichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol and chloride without use of oxygen or cofactors. The active site is situated in an internal cavity, which is accesible from the solvent, even in the crystal. Crystal structures of the dehalogenase enzyme complexed with iodoacetamide, chloroacetamide, iodide, and chloride at pH 6.2 and 8.2 revealed a halide binding site between the ring NH's of two tryptophan residues, Trp-125 and Trp-175, located in the active site. The halide ion lies on the intersection of the planes of the rings of the tryptophans. The binding of iodide and chloride to haloalkane dehalogenase caused a strong decrease in protein fluorescence. The decrease could be fitted to a modified form of the Stern-Volmer equation, indicating the presence of fluorophors of different accessibilities. Halide binding was much stronger at pH 6.0 than at pH 8.2. Assuming ligand binding to Trp-125 and Trp-175 as the sole cause of fluorescence quenching, dissociation constants at pH 6.0 with chloride and iodide were calculated to be 0.49 +/- 0.04 and 0.074 +/- 0.007 mM, respectively. Detailed structural investigation showed that the halide binding site probably stabilizes the halide product as well as the negatively charged transition state occurring during the formation of the covalent intermediate.
Chlorinated hydrocarbons belong to the most frequently encountered contaminants in soil and groundwater. Many of them were found to be toxic and recalcitrant, which causes a potential threat to the environment. Therefore, it is of great importance that sites contaminated with chlorinated hydrocarbons are remediated. In this thesis we focus on anaerobic microbial oxidation of low-chlorinated hydrocarbons. These low-chlorinated hydrocarbons can enter soil and groundwater by direct release or by partial dechlorination of higher chlorinated hydrocarbons. Their fate strongly depends on microbial processes in soil and groundwater systems. Since many contaminated aquifers contain large volumes that are dominated by anaerobic processes it is apparent that anaerobic microorganisms play an important role in the degradation of contaminants. The tendency of low-chlorinated hydrocarbons to undergo oxidative dehalogenation increases when the number of chlorine substituents decreases. Whether low-chlorinated hydrocarbons are more likely to be degraded by oxidation than by reduction processes under anoxic conditions depends primarily on environmental conditions (e.g. redox conditions, availability of electron acceptors/donors, present microorganisms). The potential for anaerobic oxidation of different pollutants was studied by performing both up-flow soil columns and batch experiments, inoculated with contaminated soil and supplied with a mixture of different (chlorinated) hydrocarbons. They were operated in the absence of oxygen under nitrate-, iron( III)- or manganese(IV)-reducing conditions or in the absence of an externally supplied electron acceptor. It was found that 1 ,2 -dichloroethane (DCA), 2-chloroethanol (CE), vinyl chloride (VC), monochlorobenzene (MCB) and octane could be removed in the absence of oxygen. From a enrichment culture that showed DCA degradation with nitrate as sole electron acceptor, Pseudomonas stutzeri stain JJ was isolated. This bacterium is the first isolate known that can grow anaerobically with CE as sole carbon and energy source and nitrate as electron acceptor. Strain JJ was however not able to grow on DCA. The degradation pathway of CE under denitrifying conditions by strain JJ seems to be the same as found in aerobic bacteria that degrade CE . According to this pathway, CE is first oxidized to chloroacetaldehyde, then chloroacetaldehyde is oxidized to chloroacetate and subsequently chloroacetate is dehalogenated to glycolate, which enters the central metabolic pathways. MCB removal was studied in a nitrate-reducing up-flow soil column. Different observations and calculations suggests that MCB was oxidized in the absence of oxygen with nitrate as electron acceptor. These results underline the potential importance of anaerobic oxidation processes for the clean-up of sites polluted with low-chlorinated hydrocarbons as pointed out by others. Anaerobic oxidation pathways can be of particular importance when plumes contaminated with chlorinated compounds spread from reduced (e.g. methanogenic, sulfate-reducing) to more oxidized (e.g. iron-reducing and denitrifying) redox zones. These redox situations frequently occur at polluted sites in Western Europe.
2-Chiorethyl acrylate was synthesized by transesterification of methyl acrylate and 2-chloroethanol.The effects of species and amount of catalyst and inhibitor,material ratio and reaction temperature on reaction yield were investigated.The optimum reaction conditions were determined that the molar ration of p-toluenesulfonic acid,hydroquinone,methyl acrylate to 2-chioroethanol was 0.06:0.05:3:1 and reaction temperature was 100°C,Under these conditions,the conversion was 95%,yield 90%.
In the absence of CuCl2, ethene was oxidized to ethanal by PdCl3 (pyridine)− in aqueous solution by the rate expression: −d[C2H4]dt = k′K′[PdCl3(Py)−][C2H4][H+][Cl−]2 where K′ is the equilibrium constant for π-complex formation between ethene and PdCl3(Py)− (Py = pyridine). This rate expression is of the same form as that previously found for the oxidation of ethene by PdCl2−4 in aqueous solution (Wacker reaction). The value of K′ for PdCl3(Py)− was found to be 20.3 which is close to the value of 17.4 previously measured for π-complex formation between ethene and PdCl2−4. However, the value of k for PdCl2−4 was 750 times the value of k′ for PdCl3(Py)−. This result suggests that the hydroxypalladation adduct from PdCl3(Py)− is much more stable towards decomposition to ethanal than the corresponding one from PdCl2−4. A direct result of this higher stability is the expectation that the adduct from PdCl3(Py)− should be more readily intercepted by CuCl2 to produce 2-chloroethanol. At chloride concentrations as low as 0.2 M and [CuCl2] = 4 M, the product was almost 50% 2-chloroethanol. At [CuCl2] = 8 M, the product was 98% 2-chloroethanol. With PdCl2−4, a chloride concentration of 3 M is required before an appreciable amounts of 2-chloroethanol are produced at any cupric chloride concentration. For the reaction of ethene with PdCl2−4, these results are consistent with a mechanism involving cis addition at low [Cl−] and trans addition at high [Cl−]. The pathway for ethanal formation may be different with PdCl3(Py)− than it is with PdCl2−4.
Abstract Reduction of malonaldehyde bis(ethylene and propylene acetals) with borane or monochloroborane produces diether diols 1 and 2 in high yield. Similar reduction of glyoxal bis(ethylene acetals) has only limited utility for the preparation of tetrasubstituted triethylene glycols 3. Organotin chemistry is complementary: stannylene acetals prepared from disubstituted vicinal diols can be alkylated with half an equivalent of 1,2-dibromoethane to produce tetrasubstituted triethylene glycols 3, or with two equivalents of 2-chloroethanol to produce disubstituted triethylene glycols 4.
Abstract The classification of an impurity of a drug substance as genotoxic means that the “threshold of toxicological concern” (TTC) value of 1.5 μg/day intake, considered to be associated with an acceptable risk, should be the admissible limit in the raw material and that leads to new analytical challenges. In this study, reliable chromatographic methods were developed and applied as limit tests for the control of three genotoxic impurities (GTIs) in cloperastine fendizoate, drug widely used as an antitussive active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). In particular, GC–MS was applied to the determination of one alkyl halide (2-chloroethanol, 2-CE), while HPLC-DAD was selected for the analysis of two sulfonate esters (methyl p -toluenesulfonate, MPTS, and 2-chloroethyl p -toluenesulfonate, CEPTS). Regarding GC–MS, strong anion-exchange (SAX)-SPE was applied to remove fendizoate from the sample solutions, due its low volatility and its high amount in the raw material. The GC–MS analysis was performed on a Factor Four VF-23ms capillary column (30 m × 0.25 mm I.D., film thickness 0.25 μm, Varian). Single ion-monitoring (SIM) detection mode was set at m / z 80. In the case of HPLC-DAD, a suitable optimization of the chromatographic conditions was carried out in order to obtain a good separation of the impurity peaks from the drug substance peaks. The optimized method utilizes a SymmetryShield RP 8 column (250 mm × 4.6 mm, 5 μm, Waters) kept at 50 °C, with phosphate buffer (pH 3.0; 10 mM)–methanol (containing 10% ACN) (45:55, v/v) as the mobile phase, at the flow-rate of 1.7 mL/min and UV detection at 227 nm. The required sensitivity level was achieved by injecting 80 μL of sample solution, purified from fendizoate by SAX-SPE, followed by a 1:1 (v/v) dilution of the SPE eluate with water. For both GC–MS and HPLC-DAD, the method validation was performed in relation to specificity and limit of detection (LOD), as required by ICH guidelines in relation to limit assays. The developed methods were successfully applied for the determination of GTIs in five different batches of cloperastine fendizoate. In all the analyzed batches, the three target GTIs were below the concentration limit.
Poly(amidoamine)(PAMAM) dendrimers with a cinnamoyl shell were prepared by reacting full generation PAMAM dendrimers (G=3.0) with 2-chloroethanol and cinnamoyl chloride, which resulted in densely packed polymerizable unsaturated groups on the periphery. The cinnamoyl shell of the dendrimers dimerized when irradiated under a UV light by using 5-nitroacenaphthylene as an initiator in dilute dimethylformamide (DMF). FTIR, 1H NMR, UV-Vis, SEC, and a viscosity test certified that the photocycloaddition of the cinnamoyl shell of the dendrimers took place within the molecules with the disappearance of double bond signals in the FTIR. 1H NMR spectra as well as the intrinsic viscosity and polydispersity value of the products both before and after irradiation showed no difference. It was further found that the cinnamoyl shell-modified dendrimers possessed fluorescence property, and the fluorescence intensity became stronger when the shell was photocyclized under UV- irradiation. © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 38: 4147–4153, 2000
Abstract 1. 1. The conformation in solution of eye-lens proteins obtained from cortical extracts of adult bovine lenses, was studied by means of the optical rotatory dispersion method. 2. 2. The rotatory data were analysed according to the modified two-term Drude equation, the Moffitt-Yang equation and the one-term Drude equation. 3. 3. The lens proteins appeared to consist of a mixture of α-helix, random coil and some other structure, which disappeared upon denaturation by acid, alkali or 8 M urea, and also in 2-chloroethanol. 4. 4. From a comparison with other proteins it seems probable that this other structure has a β conformation.
Abstract Stannylene acetals prepared from disubstituted vicinal diols can be alkylated with a half equivalent of 1,2-dibromoethane to produce tetrasubstituted triethylene glycols 2 , or with two equivalents of 2-chloroethanol to produce disubstituted triethylene glycols 1 .
Haloalkane dehalogenase catalyzes the hydrolytic cleavage of carbon-halogen bonds in a broad range of halogenated aliphatic compounds. The X-ray structure suggests that Asp124, which is located close to an internal cavity, carries out a nucleophilic attack on the C alpha of the substrate, releasing the halogen. To study the mechanism of hydrolysis, this aspartate residue was mutated to alanine, glycine, or glutamate. The mutant enzymes showed no activity toward 1,2-dichloroethane and 1,2-dibromoethane. Incubation of purified wild-type dehalogenase with 1,2-dichloroethane in the presence of H2(18)O resulted in the incorporation of 18O in 2-chloroethanol and in the carboxylate group of Asp124. This shows that the reaction proceeds by covalent catalysis with the formation of an alkyl-enzyme intermediate that is hydrolyzed by attack of solvent water on the carbonyl carbon of Asp124. On the basis of amino acid sequence similarity between haloalkane dehalogenase and epoxide hydrolases, it is proposed that a conserved aspartate residue is also involved in covalent catalysis by the latter enzymes.
Experimental values of density, viscosity, and refractive index at 298.15, 303.15, and 308.15 K and the speed of sound at 298.15 K in the binary mixtures of 2-chloroethanol with methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, and butyl acetate are presented over the whole range of mixture composition. From these data, excess molar volume, deviations in viscosity, speed of sound, isentropic compressibility, and Lorenz−Lorentz molar refraction have been calculated. These results are fit to a Redlich−Kister type polynomial equation of the third degree to derive the binary coefficients. The values of standard deviations are estimated for the calculated and experimental data.
For the study of proteins in the denaturing organic alcohols, methanol, ethanol, 1-propanol, trifluoroethanol, and 2-chloroethanol, and the assessment of the number or fraction of exposed tyrosyl and tryptophyl residues in these solvents by the solvent perturbation method of difference spectroscopy, the molar absorbance difference values, Δϵλ of the N-acetyl ethyl esters of tyrosine and tryptophan have been obtained with 20% dimethylsulfoxide as a perturbant, and are presented in the 350-260 nm region. Solvent perturbation data obtained on apomyoglobin, serum albumin, and ovalbumin in several of these solvents are presented and analyzed for the purpose of illustration of the computation and curve-fitting techniques used, employing the tabulated model compound data of this paper.
The present invention discloses a method for preparing 2-chloro-2-ethoxy-ethoxy ethanol, two, 2-chloroethanol and ethylene oxide as raw materials, the reaction under the presence of a catalyst, to give 2-chloro-ethoxy first alcohol group, i.e., removal of the solvent remaining after the reaction was 2-chloroethanol, 2-chloro-ethoxy ethanol was added and the reaction was continued again ethylene oxide to give the desired product 2-chloro-2-ethoxy-ethoxy diethanol. The reaction of the present invention is easy to operate, mild system, fewer side effects, the content of the product yield and less pollution produced by the reaction.
The National Toxicology Program has undertaken a study to assess the ability of four genetic toxicology assays to predict the carcinogenicity of chemicals in 2-year rodent studies [Tennant et al.: Science 236:933-941, 1987]. Two of the assays, used for evaluating in vitro cytogenetic damage, were the SCE and chromosome aberration assays in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The results and data for 15 of the chemicals tested in these two assays are presented here. Each chemical was tested with and without exogenous metabolic activation. The chemicals tested were bisphenol A, 2-chloroethanol, C.I. acid orange 10, C.I. disperse yellow 3, C.I. solvent yellow 14, cytembena, D&C red 9, 1,2-dibromoethane, FD&C yellow 6, malaoxon, D,L-menthol, phenol, sulfisoxazole, titanium dioxide, and tris(2-ethylhexyl)phosphate. In vitro cytogenetic results from the other chemicals presented by Tennant et al. (Science 236:933-941, 1987) have been published by Galloway et al. (Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis 10(Suppl 10): 1-175, 1987), Gulati et al. (Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis 13:133-193, 1989), and Love-day et al. (Environmental Mutagenesis 13:60-94).
The invention discloses an industrial preparation method of cloperastine, and in particular relates to a method for preparing cloperastine (formula I) by taking sodium acid sulfate as a catalyst, implementing reaction on cheap and easily obtained 4-chlorobenzhydrol (formula V) and 2-chloroethanol (formula IV) to prepare etherate (formula III), and by implementing reaction on a compound of the formula III and piperidine (formula II) in the presence of an acid-binding agent. The method is simple and short in produce, the whole process is convenient and rapid to operate, the used catalyst is cheap and easy available, high in catalysis activity, free of corrosion on equipment and small in waste pollution, and a prepared product is excellent in quality, high in yield and applicable to industrialization production.
Reactions of 2,4-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-1,3,2,4-dithiadiphosphetane-2,4-disulfide with hydroxy substituted compounds (R-OH) gave rise to the formation of dithiophosphonate compounds 2, 3 and 4 [R-OH: N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-phthalimide, 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)pyridine and 2-(2-hydroxyethyl)pyrrolidine]. Compounds 3 and 4 have been shown in zwitterionic species. The 2,4-bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-1,3,2,4-dithiadiphosphetane-2,4-disulfide was reacted with 2-chloroethanol to give 4–methoxyphenyl-2-sulfido-1,3,2-oxathiaphospholane (5), synthesized by a new method. Nickel and Cadmium complexes (2a and 2c) of 1 were prepared. Compounds were characterized by elemental analysis, IR, 1H-NMR, 31P-NMR, UV/VIS spectroscopies and crystal structure of 5 was determined. The magnetic moment for 2b is 2.97 B.M.
The conformations of melittin, an amphipathic polypeptide consisting of 26 amino acid residues, and its hydrophobic (residues 1--19) and hydrophilic (residues 20--26) fragments were examined in various solvent systems, including H2O, 2H2O, 2-chloroethanol, and 1,2-dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) multilayers, by infrared spectroscopy. Water and 2-chloroethanol were used as reference solvents for characterizing the amide I and II vibrational frequencies of the polypeptide in systems reflecting unordered, beta-structure, or alpha-helical forms. In DMPC bilayer assemblies both melittin and its hydrophobic fragment F1 exhibit alpha-helical conformations. In contrast, infrared spectra for the hydrophilic F2 fragment are suggestive of a beta conformation with perhaps spectral contributions from random-coil configurations. The alpha-helical conformation of intact melittin in DMPC multilayer dispersions remains unchanged as the bilayer passes from the gel to liquid-crystalline state. For melittin-water solutions the infrared spectra monitor changes in population of specific conformations as the temperature is varied. Thus, for melittin concentrations in which tetramers are dominant high temperatures (31 degrees C) favor the alpha-helical form, while low temperatures (8 degrees C) lead to populations of both beta and alpha-helical structures. At lower melittin concentrations for which monomers persist, high temperatures favor an unordered polypeptide form, while low temperatures induce an alpha-helical conformation. Although peak-height intensity ratios AII/AI for the amide I and II regions are difficult to interpret rigorously, values of this parameter for aqueous solutions of melittin suggest a sensitivity to structural changes involving the aggregation properties of the polypeptide.
A series of 1-phenyl-3-(4-(2-ethanoloxy) phenyl)-5-aryl-1H-pyrazoles were synthesized from chalcones, that is, 3-aryl-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl) prop-2-en-1-ones and studied for their in vitro antibacterial activity. Chalcones 1 on reaction with phenyl hydrazine in the presence of acetic acid and few drops of hydrochloric acid yielded the corresponding 1-phenyl-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-aryl-1H-pyrazoles 2 which on further reaction with 2-chloroethanol furnished the title compounds 3. These compounds were characterized by CHN analyses, IR, mass and 1H NMR spectral data. All the compounds were evaluated for their in vitro antibacterial activity against two Gram positive strains (Bacillus subtilis and Staphylococcus aureus) and two Gram negative strains (Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), and their minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was determined.
A multiresidue method is presented for the gas-liquid chromatographic determination of phenoxyalkanoic acid herbicides in natural waters. Extraction efficiencies of different organic solvents are considered in developing a solvent extraction scheme for these herbicides from water. Reactions for derivatizing these compounds by using pentafluorobenzyl bromide, boron trichloride-2-chloroethanol, and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide-2-chloroethanol were studied in order to obtain extracts with low blanks to provide the lowest detection limits. Advantages and disadvantages of the 3 methods are discussed. Retention times are twice as long for the pentafluorobenzyl (PFB) esters as for the 2-chloroethyl (2-Cl) esters under the same conditions, although electron capture sensitivity to the former was greater. The PFB esters are easier to form, but the 2-Cl reaction is more specific for these herbicides. Solutions from the boron trichloride reaction gave the cleanest blanks.
Densities and apparent molar volumes of aqueous 2-chloroethanol were determined at temperatures from 15.0 to 34.4°C using digital densimetry. The results of the volumetric measurements have been used to calculate the following thermodynamic quantites at 25°C: V2o = 55.05 ± 0.02 cm3-mol−1, (∂V2o/∂T)p = 0.01486 ± 0.00318 cm3-K−1-mol−1, and (∂2V2o/∂T2)p = 0.02972 ± 0.00318 cm3-K−2-mol−1. Partial molar volumes of transfer from water to 1 mol-dm−3 2-chloroethanol have also been determined for L-glycine, L-alanine, L-serine, L-glutamic acid, and L-aspartic acid at 35.0°C. The transfer results have been explained in terms of the nature of the interactions of the groups in the solute and solvent. Hydration numbers of L-glycine and L-alanine have also been calculated in aqueous 2-chloroethanol.
A series of 1-phenyl-3-(4-(2-ethanoloxy) phenyl)-5-aryl-1H-pyrazoles were synthesized from chalcones, that is, 3-aryl-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl) prop-2-en-1-ones and studied for their in vitro antibacterial activity. Chalcones 1 on reaction with phenyl hydrazine in the presence of acetic acid and few drops of hydrochloric acid yielded the corresponding 1-phenyl-3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-5-aryl-1H-pyrazoles 2 which on further reaction with 2-chloroethanol furnished the title compounds 3. ese compounds were characterized by CHN analyses, IR, mass and 1 H NMR spectral data. All the compounds were evaluated for their in vitro antibacterial activity against two Gram positive strains (Bacillus subtilis and Staphylococcus aureus) and two Gram negative strains (Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), and their minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was determined.
The far-ultraviolet region circular dichroic spectrumof serine hydroxymethyltransferase from monkey liver showed that the protein is in an α-helical conformation. The near ultraviolet circular dichoric spectrum revealed two negative bands originating from the tertiary conformational environment of the aromatic amino acid residues. Addition of urea or guanidinium chloride perturbed the characteristic fluorescence and far ultraviolet circular dichroic spectrum of the enzyme. The decrease in (θ)222 and enzyme activity followed identical patterns with increasing concentrations of urea, whereas with guanidinium chloride, the loss of enzyme activity preceded the loss of secondary structure. 2-Chloroethanol, trifluoroethanol and sodium dodecyl sulphate enhanced the mean residue ellipticity values. In addition, sodium dodecyl sulphate also caused a perturbation of the fluorescence emission spectrum of the enzyme. Extremes of pH decreased the — (θ)222 value. Plots of — (θ)222and enzyme activity as a function of pH showed maximal values at pH 7.4–7.5. These results suggested the prevalence of “conformational flexibility” in the structure of serine hydroxymethyltransferase.
The UV absorption spectrum of the HOCH2CH2O2 radical has been determined by the laser flash photolysis of H2O2 at 248 nm in the presence of C2H4 and O2. The absorption cross-sections were determined relative to the known cross-section of C2H5O2 at 250 nm and are in good agreement with results of a molecular modulation study in which mixtures of H2O2, C2H4 and O2 were photolysed at 254 nm. The spectrum is similar in shape and magnitude to that of C2H5O2 with a peak cross-section of 5.1 × 10–18 cm2 molecule–1 occurring at ca. 245 nm. The cross-sections determined in these studies are a factor of two higher than determined previously in this laboratory by the modulated photolysis of 2-iodoethanol, although the shape of the spectra are similar. A plausible explanation has been proposed for the low cross-sections determined in the previous study. It is concluded that the 254 nm photolysis of 2-iodoethanol produces HOCH2CH2O2 with ca. 50% yield.The removal of HOCH2CH2O2 followed second-order kinetics with an observed rate coefficient, kobs=(3.0 ± 0.5)× 10–12 cm3 molecule–1 s–1 at 296 K and 740 Torr (N2), the error referring to precision only at the 95% confidence level. The ratio kobs/σ250 was calculated to be (6.6 ± 1.1)× 105 cm s–1 in very good agreement with values determined by the molecular modulation method in this study using H2O2[(6.8 ± 0.6)× 105 cm s–1] and in the previous study using 2-iodoethanol [(6.5 ± 0.4)× 105 cm s–1] as the radical sources. The decay of HOCH2CH2O2 is attributed to a sequence of reactions initiated by the self-reaction. HOCH2CH2O2+ HOCH2CH2O2→ products (6) A reinterpretation of the previous results, accounting for the 50% yield of HOCH2CH2O2, leads to a revised value of α= 0.36 ± 0.07 for the branching ratio of the alkoxy radical product channel, 2HOCH2CH2O + O2(6a). A value of k6=(2.2 ± 0.5)× 10–12 cm3 molecule–1 s–1(95% confidence level) is concluded based on this value of α and the above value of kobs.The 193 nm photolysis of 2-chloroethanol in the presence of O2 yields HOCH2CH2O2 and HO2 simultaneously and allowed the determination of the rate coefficient for reaction (7), k7=(1.2 ± 0.3)× 10–11 cm3 molecule–1 s–1. HOCH2CH2O2+ HO2→ products (7)
Abstract Densities of binary mixtures of 2-chloroethanol with N , N -dimethylformamide (DMF) and water have been measured over the full range of compositions at various temperatures. From these results, excess molar volumes, V E and excess partial molar volumes at infinite dilution, V¯ i E,0 have been calculated. V E for (DMF + 2-chloroethanol) mixture are positive over the whole mole fraction range and negative values are obtained for (water + 2-chloroethanol) mixture.
Abstract The α-helical conformation of the unfractionated calf-thymus histone and of its four main fractions (F1, F2a, F2b and F3) was determined from their optical rotary dispersion in aqueous, saline and 2-chloroethanol solutions. It was found that in aqueous solutions all the histones were in form of disordered chains which changed partially into an α-helical conformation in solution containing salts or DNA. In 0.1 M NaCl, Fraction 2b had the highest per cent of α-helix conformation, whereas the very lysine-rich Fraction 1 remained in form of a random coil. Replacement of Na+ by K+, Ca2+ or Al3+ did not further increase the α-helical conformation of the histones; phosphate was found more effective in producing the α-helical transitions than chloride. Dissolving the fractions in 2-chloroethanol more than doubled their α-helical conformation (60% for F2b and 48% for F1 and F). The optical rotatory dispeersion data indicate that no appreciable denaturation takes place during the fractionation of histones.
New thermoplastic nonsegmented thiopolyurethanes were synthesized from the new low-melting aliphatic-aromatic thiodiols bis[4-(2-hydroxyethyl)thiomethylphenyl]methane, bis[4-(3-hydroxypropyl)thiomethylphenyl]methane, and bis[4-(6-hydroxyhexyl)thiomethylphenyl]methane and hexamethylene diisocyanate both by melt and solution polyaddition with dibutyltin dilaurate as a catalyst. All the thiodiols were prepared with high yields by the condensation reaction of bis(4-mercaptomethylphenyl)methane with 2-chloroethanol, 3-chloro-1-propanol, or 6-chloro-1-hexanol. The hard-segment-type polyurethanes obtained were plastic materials with partially crystalline structures. Polymerization in solution produced products with higher molecular weights (ηred = 0.97–1.24 dL/g) than polymerization in melt (ηred = 0.44–1.05 dL/g). The structures of all the polyurethanes were determined with elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared, and X-ray diffraction analysis. Thermal properties of the polymers obtained in solution were examined by differential scanning calorimetry and thermogravimetric analysis. Shore A/D hardness and tensile properties for all the polyurethanes were also determined. Of the two kinds, the polyurethanes obtained in solution possessed better tensile properties and showed yield stress (tensile strength) in a range of 27.8–30.0 MPa at an elongation of 17.4–25.1%. © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. J Polym Sci A: Polym Chem 38: 1767–1773, 2000
A series of new bioactive polymers with pendant choline analogous group was prepared by anion exchange reaction direct at the quaternary nitrogen of the polycation. Poly(4-vinyl 2-hydroxyethyl pyridinium) chloride was prepared in situ by simultaneous polymerization and quaternization of 4-vinyl pyridine with 2-chloroethanol that also acts as catalyst. The counter anion (Cl−) of the polycation was exchanged by anion exchange reaction with Br−, −OH, −SH, NO3 −, BF4 − or CF3COO−. Evidence of anion exchange was obtained by the characterization of the resultant polymers. The nature of the counter anion has profound effect on their properties including strong anion-dependent anti-microbial activity against bacteria and fungus. Polymer containing −OH was observed to be the most potent anti-microbial agent with the lowest minimum inhibitory concentration against both the classes of microbes studied.
Four asymmetric bis(thiosemicarbazone) 3a~3d are synthesized from the following steps: firstly hydrazine reacted with carbon disulfide carbonate,catalyzed by 2-chloroethanol,to form thiocarbonohydrazide(1) with yield of 82%,then the compound(1) further reacted with ketone or aldehyde in ethanol at 780C step by step to give 3a~3d with yields of 70%~87%.The structures of these compounds 3a~3d have been confirmed by means of their IR,1HNMR and mass spectra.
Abstract A modified Ames test was used, without a liver-microsome activation system, to test and compare the mutagenic activities of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide and of reaction products present in foods after fumigation with one or other of these epoxides. Both epoxides, as well as the 2-chloro-, 2-bromo- and 2-iodoethanols and the 1-chloro-2- and 2-chloro-1-propanol isomers induced dose-dependent increases in the number of revertant mutations in the histidine-dependent Salmonella typhimurium strains TA1535 and TA100, the former strain being the more sensitive. None of these compounds was effective in strains TA1537 or TA98, and ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol and propylene glycol showed no mutagenic activity in any of these four Salmonella strains. Of the compounds giving positive results, the weakest mutagenic activity was shown by 2-chloroethanol and the chloropropanols, while the levels of activity shown by the bromo- and iodoethanols were similar to those of the epoxides.
Through the reaction of 1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol and imidazole,1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-(1-imidazolyl)-ethanol was synthesized with polyethylene glycol 400 as phase transfer for catalyst.The influencing factors of the reaction,such as catalyst's dosage,reaction temperature and reaction time,were investigated.The optimal conditions were obtained.The results showed that polyethylene glycol 400 exhibited high selectivity,simple work-up procedure and mild reaction conditions.The yield was 84.6%.
Microwave irradiation was used to the synthesis of 2-hydroethyl-benzo[d]isothiazole-3(2H)-one from the starting material benzo[d]isothiazole-3(2H)-one and 2-chloroethanol.The influence of the mol ratio of sodium hydroxide and 2-chloroethanol was studied,as well as the time and the temperature of the reaction.The optimum reaction condition was determined through orthogonal experiment.Under the optinum reaction condition,the refined yield reached 83.3%.The result showed that the microwave synthesis of 2-hydroethyl-benzo[d]isothiazole-3(2H)-one was more convenient than traditional ones,with faster reaction speed and higher yield.Thus,it could be a promissing way for utilization.
[1,2-14C]1,2-Dichloroethane was metabolized by rat liver enzyme systems to nonvolatile products and to products irreversibly bound to protein and calf thymus DNA. Cytosolic metabolism to all three types of metabolites was dependent upon the presence of reduced glutathione (GSH), suggesting the role of GSH transferases. Microsomal metabolism to all three types of products occurred via mixed function oxidation; microsomal GSH transferase(s) catalyzed the formation of metabolites irreversibly bound to DNA. GSH blocked microsomal mixed function oxidase (MFO)-catalyzed binding to protein but stimulated binding to DNA in a synergistic manner. 2-Chloroacetaldehyde, S-(2-chloroethyl)-GSH, and 1-chloroso-2-chloroethane are proposed as major species involved in irreversible binding but vinyl chloride, 2-chloroethanol, and chloroethyl radicals are not. The microsomal MFO, synergistic microsomal MFO-GSH transferase, and cytosolic GSH transferase systems differed in their preferences for irreversible binding of label from dichloroethane to various homopolyribonucleotides and only the latter system produced metabolites mutagenic to Salmonella typhimurium TA 1535. We postulate that several 1,2-dichloroethane activation pathways are operative which produce different adducts; the relative contribution of each pathway to total nonvolatile metabolites, mutagenic metabolites, and DNA and protein adducts under these in vitro assay conditions was estimated.
1,2-Dichoroethane (DCE) is a prototypical molecule for studying electrostatic solvent effects on molecular conformation as far as rotation around the carbon−carbon bond notably changes the electric properties of the molecule and especially the dipole moment. While the apolar trans conformation is the absolute free energy minimum in the gas phase, solvents of increased polarity relatively favor the population of the gauche conformers. DCE is also a substrate of haloakane dehalogenase from Xanthobacter Autotrophicus (DhlA), an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of DCE to 2-chloroethanol. We here investigate the nature of substrate−enzyme interactions, obtaining the free energy profiles of rotation around the C−C bond in the gas phase, in aqueous solution, and in the enzymic environment. In the enzyme only the gauche conformers are free energy minima, the trans conformer being a free energy maximum. Differences between the aqueous solution and enzyme energy profiles are rationalized taking into account the...
In mixtures of 1 volume of buffer and 2 volumes of 2-chloroethanol, the icosahedral bacteriophage fr is split into RNA and monomeric protein subunits. After removal of the RNA and after replacement of the organic solvent by water, viruslike particles can be obtained by dialysis of the protein against neutral buffers of high ionic strength, whereas multishell particles are formed in buffers of low ionic strength. All results achieved by the use of 2-chloroethanol are very similar to those obtained using acetic acid.
In mixtures of 1 volume of buffer and 2 volumes of 2-chloroethanol, the icosahedral bacterio phage fr is split into RNA and monomeric protein subunits. After removal of the RNA and after replacement of the organic solvent by water, viruslike particles can be obtained by dialysis of the protein against neutral buffers of high ionic strength, whereas m ultishell particles are formed in buffers of low ionic strength. All results achieved by the use of 2-chloroethanol are very similar to those obtained using acetic acid.
A num ber of methods is known for the splitting and subsequent reaggregation of the rodlike tobacco mosaic virus (T M V )1. Reversible depolymerisation of icosahedral viruses has been more difficult to achieve. The reason for this seems to be that the protein shell of most icosahedral viruses is very stable. Thus splitting of the shell norm ally leads to severe denaturation of the protein, adding to the problem of reassembly the problem of renaturation 2. Therefore, up to now, satisfying results con cerning the reversible depolymerisation of spherical viruses have been obtained only by two methods; for small RNA bacteriophages3-5 by F r a e n k e l -C o n r a t 's acetic acid method 6 and for a group of closely related, small plant v iru ses7' 8 by exposing them to high salt concentrations. It is obvious that the addition of further methods would be advan tageous because it would offer further possibilities for the study of the physico-chemical principles of virus structure and of protein-protein and proteinnucleic acid interactions. We have tried to achieve this aim using bacteriophage fr, the first spherical virus for which self-assembly of protein subunits in the absence of nucleic acid was shown 5. It turned out that with this virus reversible depolymerisation of the protein coat using 2-chloroethanol can be perform ed as effectively as by the use of acetic acid. 
The method used is analogous to the acetic acid method 6> 2 and similar to the procedure described by C h i e n et al. 9 for tobacco mosaic virus. In an ice bath, 2 volumes of 2-chloroethanol (Merck, Darmstadt) were added to one volume of 0.15 M NaCl, 0.02 M Tris-HCl, pH 7.2, containing 10 -25 mg fr (grown and purified as described before2) . After 60 min the virus RNA had precipitated and was removed by centrifugation (30 min at 3000 rpm in a Stock centrifuge). The super natant was then diluted with an equal volume of H20, and the solution was dialyzed extensively against H20. Afterwards, 0.02 M NaOH was added until the pH of the solution was between 7.0 and 7.5. The final step of the procedure was dialysis of the sample against buf fers of varying ionic strength in the neutral pH range. All centrifugations and dialyses were carried out at 4 °C. -Essentially the same results were obtained if, after centrifugation, the buffer-2-chloroethanol mixture was dialysed first against 33% acetic acid and then against H20, or if the mixture was dialysed against H20 , without preceding dilution with H20.
SUMMARY Chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde, two me tabolites of vinyl chloride, and 2-chloroethanol, a putative metabolic intermediate, were assayed for their genetic ac tivity in the yeasts SChizosaCCharomyCes pombe and Sac charomyces cerevisiae. Chlonoethylene oxide was found to be the most effective in inducing forward mutations in Sch. pombe and gene conversions in S. cerevisiae, increasing the mutation and conversion frequencies 340 and 50 times, respectively, over those of the controls. In either the pres ence or the absence of mouse liver microsomes, 2-chlo roacetaldehyde showed only feeble genetic activity, and 2chloroethanol was completely inactive in both yeast strains. In contrast to vinyl chloride, 2-chloroacetaldehyde did not induce forward mutations in Sch. pombe in the host-me diated assay in mice. The results strongly support the hy pothesis that chloroethylene oxide is one of the principal mutagenic agents formed from vinyl chloride in the pres@ ence of mouse liver enzymes.
Viscose-grade cotton linters (DPw = 1135) were converted to viscose by the emulsion xanthation technique. Two variables—namely, substitution level and xanthation time—were considered insofar as their influence on the uniformity of substitution with regard to chain length was concerned. The stable diethylacetamide derivatives were prepared by reaction with diethylchloroacetamide and fractionally precipitated from aqueous 2-chloroethanol. The DPw and degree of substitution (DS) of the individual fractions were determined. The results in each case indicated that the longer chains were more highly substituted than the shorter chains. For a constant xanthation time (6 hr.), uniformity in substitution improved with increasing substitution level. For a constant CS2:cellulose ratio (1.48), uniformity increased with xanthation time. A mechanism is suggested which accounts for these phenomena.
The title compounds, spiro[1,3-dioxolane-2,3'-indolin]-2'-one, was synthesized with isatin and 2-chloroethanol by a intramolecular substitution reaction in the presence of K(2)CO(3) for the first time, which avoided the using of H(+) as catalyst in traditional synthesis of ketal compounds. The structure of spiro[1,3-dioxolane-2,3'-indolin]-2'-one was studied by X-ray single crystal diffraction, and the two byproducts in the reaction were characterized by H(1)-NMR, MS spectrums. With these results, the proposed way to spiro[1,3-dioxolane-2,3'-indolin]-2'-one and the two byproducts was brought forward.
Abstract Initiating activities of 26 chemicals were investigated in an in vivo 5 week initiation assay model with evaluation of the induction of glutathione S -transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci as end-point lesions. With the five genotoxic hepatocarcinogens (diethylnitrosamine, dimethylnitrosamine, 2-acetylaminofluorene, N -bis(2-hydroxypropyl)-nitrosamine and safrole) and 11 genotoxic non-hepatocarcinogens, (2-(2-furyl)-3-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-acrylamide, benzo[ a ]pyrene, N -butyl- N -(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine, 7,12-dimethylbenz[ a ]anthracene, 1,2-dimethylhydrazine, N -ethyl- N -hydroxyethylnitrosamine, 3-methylcholanthrene, N -methyl- N -nitrosourea, N -methyl- N ′-nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine, 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide and 8-hydroxyquinoline), the numbers of GST-P positive foci were significantly higher than in the controls. On the other hand, the mutagenic non-carcinogens (quercetin, p -phenylenediamine dihydrochloride, 2-chloroethanol and 6-hydroquinoline) did not cause a significant increase. Similarly, non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogens of the hepatopromotor class and promotors which target organs other than the liver did not induce GST-P positive foci. The specificity was thus remarkable. Moreover, regardless of the target organ, mutagenic carcinogens were detected by this in vivo 5 week initiation assay, which therefore constitutes a powerful method for screening for carcinogenic potential, especially in the initiation stage of carcinogenesis.
Chloroethanols are toxic chemicals used in industry and also formed as a result of the metabolism of several widely used halogenated hydrocarbons. The effect of 2-chloroethanol (CE), 2,2-dichloroethanol (DCE) and 2,2,2-trichloroethanol (TCE) on rat liver mitochondrial respiration was studied. Rat liver mitochondria were isolated in a medium consisting of 250 mM sucrose, 10 mM Tris-HCl and 1 mM EDTA (pH 7.4). Mitochondrial respiration was determined with an oxygen electrode at 30°C and the polarographic buffer consisted of 250 mM mannitol, 10 mM KC1, 10 mM K2HPO4, 5 mM MgCl2, 0.2 mM EDTA and 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.4). With succinate as the respiratory substrate and using chloroethanols (150 mM), CE stimulated respiration by 28.2 ± 6.5% and DCE by 202.7 ± 8.2% while TCE inhibited mitochondrial respiration (>95%). The effect of change in the concentration of chloroethanols on mitochondrial respiration was also studied. CE showed maximum stimulation at 600 mM (97.6%), DCE at 150 mM (202.6%) and TCE at 30 mM (313.6%). Respiratory stimulation was independent of mitochondrial protein concentration. Chloroethanols (optimal concentrations for respiratory stimulation with succinate) inhibited mitochondrial respiration when glutamate-malate was used as the respiratory substrate. Estimation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) showed that chloroethanols inhibited the synthesis of ATP. These results indicate that chloroethanols stimulate mitochondrial respiration by uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation and that the uncoupling potency is proportional to the extent of chlorination at the β-position of haloethanol.
The effect of five different 1-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosoureas on the growth of cultured P388 cells has been analyzed in terms of physical, chemical, and kinetic parameters that are related to the mechanism of action of this class of cancer chemotherapeutic agent. This study correlates structure with activity at the cellular level by using a dose function that is related to the amount of active species, the (2-chloroethyl)diazonium ion, that is formed during the period of exposure of cells to drug rather than to the initial drug dose. 1-(2-Chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea analogues that rapidly enter the P388 cells are shown to have the same activity relative to the amount of active species formed. When analyzed in this way, activity is not influenced by the structure of the N-3 substituent, lipophilicity, or carbamoylating activity. The agents 1-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (CNU), 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-(2,6-dioxo-3-piperidyl)-1-nitrosourea (PCNU), 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU), and 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) all produce a 50% cell growth inhibition at 6 to 7 microM active species formed per cell volume. Chlorozotocin required a twofold higher effective dose to produce the same toxic effect. This decreased activity is attributed to the slow uptake of the water-soluble chlorozotocin into P388 and L1210 cells relative to the rate of chlorozotocin conversion to active species in medium. The yields to 2-chloroethanol from CNU, BCNU, and chlorozotocin were shown to be the same, indicating that these agents generate the same yield of alkylating intermediate at 37 degrees C and pH 7.4.
Abstract The splittings of the hydroxyl torsional absorption bands observed in the gas phase IR spectra of 2-haloethanols, XCH 2 -CH 2 -OH are reported for X = Cl, Br, I. The satellite absorptions, assigned to excited states of the skeletal torsion, appear on the low-frequency side of the fundamental, possibly because of weakening of the internal hydrogen bond. The torsional potential surface is investigated by calculations using a two-dimensional model based on the known experimental data for the compound with X = Cl, and by ab initio calculations for the haloethanols with X = F and X = Cl. Models based on the assumption of pure torsion and simple dipole-dipole or central force interaction terms failed to reproduce the observed data for 2-chloroethanol, but good agreement was obtained after local modification of the potential surface interpolated from the ab initio calculations. The results may help devise the phenomenological theory of potential energy needed for quantitative study of the internal hydrogen bond.
Human serum albumin (HSA) exists in a molten-globule like state at low pH (pH 2.0). We studied the effects of trifluoroethanol (TFE) and hexafluoroisopropanol (HFIP) on the acid-denatured state of HSA by far-UV circular dichroism (CD), near-UV CD, tryptophan fluorescence, and 1-anilinonaphthalene-8-sulfonic acid (ANS) binding. At pH 2.0, these alcohols induced the formation of alpha-helical structure as evident from the increase in mean residue ellipticity (MRE) value at 222 nm. On addition of different alcohols, HSA exhibited a transition from the acid-denatured state to the alpha-helical state and loss of ANS-binding sites reflected by the decrease in ANS fluorescence at 480 nm. However, the concentration range required to bring about the transition varied greatly among different alcohols. HFIP was found to have highest potential whereas methanol was least effective in inducing the transition. The order of effectiveness of alcohols was shown to be: HFIP > TFE > 2-chloroethanol > tert-butanol > isopropanol > ethanol > methanol as evident from the Cm values. The near-UV CD spectra and tryptophan fluorescence showed the differential effects of halogenated alcohols with those of alkanols. A comparison of the m values, showing the dependence of Delta GH on alcohol concentration, suggests that the helix stabilizing potential of different alcohols is due to the additive effect of different constituent groups present whereas remarkably higher potential of HFIP involves some other factor in addition to the contribution of constituent groups.
The reaction of 1,3-diphenyl-1,3-propanedione (1) with 2-chloroethanol (2) or 3-chloro-1-propanol (3) was performed in the presence of potassium carbonate and sodium iodide as an improved procedure for regioselective C-hydroxyalkylation, involving intramolecular alcoholysis; the effects of the solvents, the temperature, and the amounts of potassium carbonate and sodium iodide were also investigated. The reaction with 2 afforded 3-benzoylpropyl benzoate (4) (ca. 70% yield), together with 2-benzoylmethyl-2-phenyl-1,3-dioxolane (5) (ca. 15% yield). The reaction with 3, on the other hand, gave 4-benzoylbutyl benzoate (92–94% yield); the corresponding 1,3-dioxane derivative was detected only in a trace. Moreover, the reaction of 1 with 2-hydroxyethyl tosylate was similarly performed, but the yields of both 4 and 5 were unexpectedly low.
Objective: 2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a solvent with a LD50 of 58 mg/kg orally in rats. In rare condition, grape farmers in Taiwan apply it on grapevines to hasten sprouting and can land themselves in potentially lethal conditions. Severe intoxication presenting with hypotension, respiratory failure, seizure, coma or mortality can occur in 24 hours even only skin or inhalational exposure. It is hard to make the correct diagnosis in cases of unknown contamination history due to lack of specific clinical signs/symptoms or availability of routine laboratory tests. ::: Cases report: In July 2011, two couples (2 males 2 females, 40-58 years old) in Nantou County of Taiwan suffered from nausea, vomiting, shortness of breath, consciousness change and suspected convulsions 6-12 hours after dining and drinking together. One case was noted to be dead on arrival in the emergency room, and the other three rapidly progressed to coma, hypotension, cardiac arrest in 1-3 hours, and dead eventually after resuscitation. The most important laboratory finding was metabolic acidosis with blood pH value 7.223 to 7.291. This lethal outbreak caused disquiet in the public with respect to food and drink. The grape sprouting agent, 2-CE was proved to be the offender with high concentrations of 2-CE (2 to 15.3 mg/L in heart blood) and its metabolite (chloroacetate 232.6 to 590.5 mg/L in heart blood) detected in patients’ samples by Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry two weeks later. ::: Conclusion: These cases demonstrated that 2-CE might be listed in table of deliberate poisons and should be ruled out in cases of mass poisoning.
A highly hydrophobic component derived from the membrane ofMycoplasma capricolum has been characterized, purified and assessed for its ability to activate macrophages to tumor cytotoxicity. Initially, crude membranes were evaluated for their solubility in a wide range of solvents. Despite differential solubility in the various solvents, the mycoplasma membranes retained their ability to potentiate macrophage tumor cytotoxicity. Mycoplasma membranes were further characterized by appraising their macrophage-activating ability subsequent to various chemical treatments: cleavage of ester and thioester bonds, oxidation of vicinal hydroxyl groups, and exposure to a broad range of pH. Only strong alkaline treatment (pH>12) caused a reduction in mycoplasma membrane activity: all other chemical treatments were inconsequential. With potential therapeutic applications in mind, mycoplasma membranes were subjected to various physical treatments including heating, freezing/thawing, sonication, lyophilization and storage. The ability of the membranes to induce macrophage activation was stably maintained following all these treatments. Purification of membranes was initiated by a chloroform/methanol lipid extraction. Macrophage-activating ability was found predominantly in the interphase. Proteolytic cleavage with trypsin increased specific activity at least sixfold. Trypsinized fractions were solubilized in 2-chloroethanol and gel filtration was performed on a hydroxylated Sephadex LH-60 column. The active fraction from this column had a further tenfold increase in specific activity. Subsequent rounds of reverse-phase HPLC on this fraction yielded three to four peaks absorbing at 280 nm, of which only one had macrophage-activating ability.
Two new agents based upon the structure of the clinically active prodrug laromustine were synthesized. These agents, 2-(2-chloroethyl)-N-methyl-1,2-bis(methylsulfonyl)-N-nitrosohydrazinecarboxamide (1) and N-(2-chloroethyl)-2-methyl-1,2-bis(methylsulfonyl)-N-nitrosohydrazinecarboxamide (2), were designed to retain the potent chloroethylating and DNA cross-linking functions of laromustine, and gain the ability to methylate DNA at the O-6 position of guanine, while lacking the carbamoylating activity of laromustine. The methylating arm was introduced with the intent of depleting the DNA repair protein O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT). Compound 1 is markedly more cytotoxic than laromustine in both AGT minus EMT6 mouse mammary carcinoma cells and high AGT expressing DU145 human prostate carcinoma cells. DNA cross-linking studies indicated that its cross-linking efficiency is nearly identical to its predicted active decomposition product, 1,2-bis(methylsulfonyl)-1-(2-chloroethyl)hydrazine (90CE), which is also produced by laromustine. AGT ablation studies in DU145 cells demonstrated that 1 can efficiently deplete AGT. Studies assaying methanol and 2-chloroethanol production as a consequence of the methylation and chloroethylation of water by 1 and 2 confirmed their ability to function as methylating and chloroethylating agents and provided insights into the superior activity of 1.
The effect of eight different alcohols including halogenols and alkanols on the structural transformation of aciddenatured ficin (ADF) at pH 2.5 was studied using far- and near-UV circular dichroism (CD) and tryptophan fluorescence. Except methanol and ethanol, other alcohols induced α-helical structure in ADF, as revealed by the increase in MRE222nm values. The fluoro alcohols tested showed a higher helix-inducing potential compared to 2chloroethanol and alkanols. Their effectiveness followed the order: 1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-propanol > 2,2,2trifluoroethanol > tert-butanol > 2-chloroethanol > 1-propanol > 2-propanol. Near-UV CD spectra showed disruption of the tertiary structure in presence of alcohols. Tryptophan fluorescence of ADF was affected differently in presence of these alcohols, showing quenching with fluoro alcohols and enhancement with 2-chloroethanol and alkanols in the order: tert-butanol > 2-propanol > 1-propanol > ethanol > methanol. The obtained results suggested that the effectiveness of the alcohols correlated well with the number of fluorine atoms, bulkiness and arrangement of different alkyl groups.
Static acute and renewal chronic tests were conducted with Daphnia magna, Daphnia pulex and Ceriodaphnia reticulata to determine their relative sensitivities to selected organic and inorganic chemicals: 2-chloroethanol, 2,4-pentanedione, pentachlorophenol, hexachloroethane, 2,2,2-trichloroethanol, 2-methyl-1-propanol, 2-methyl-2,4-pentadiol, Endrin®, silver, lead, chromium, cadmium, copper, arsenic and mercury. The three species tested yielded comparable acute EC50 values for most chemicals tested. The acute EC50 values for D. magna, D. pulex and C. reticulata varied twofold for hexachloroethane, Endrin, cadmium, arsenic and mercury. Chronic EC50 values for the three species were within one order of magnitude for 2-chloroethanol, 2,4-pentanedione, cadmium, chromium and silver. Differences in the sensitivities of these three popular cladoceran test species were within one order of magnitude. Reproductive impairment in all three test species appeared to be a more sensitive indicator of chronic toxicity than survival. This study suggests that the 7-d Ceriodaphnia chronic test may be used as an alternative short-term method for the screening of chemical toxicities.
Synthetic methodology is given for the preparation of two different types of thiocrown ethers from optically pure 1,1‘-binaphthalene-2,2‘-diol (10). The conceptually simplest approach starts from optically pure 10 itself, which is alkylated (4 equiv of K2CO3 in DMF at 110 °C) with 2-chloroethanol followed by mesylation to provide 2,2‘-bis(2-(mesyloxy)ethoxy)-1,1‘-binaphthyl (14). When allowed to react with ethane-1,2-dithiol, propane-1,3-dithiol, 1,4,7-trithiaheptane, 1,4,8,11-tetrathiaundecane, 2,2-dimethylpropane-1,3-dithiol, 2-(mercaptomethyl)-1-propene-3-thiol, and 1,2-benzenedithiol in the presence of Cs2CO3 in DMF at 60 °C the corresponding thiocrown ethers 22−25, 28, 30, and 32 are formed in 30−54% yields. Test reactions were carried out to establish that no racemization occurs during alkylation under these conditions. Reaction of optically pure 10 with tetrahydropyranyl (THP)-protected 3-chloropropanol under similar conditions for the preparation of 14 proceeded more sluggishly but cleanly. Remova...
Reconstitution of membranes of the red blood cell has been obtained by recombining the membrane proteins with the membrane lipids. The native membranes have been solubilized in 90% 2-chloroethanol, and membrane proteins and lipids have been separated by gel filtration on Sephadex LH-20. The two components were combined in 2-chloroethanol and then dialyzed against aqueous buffer whereby precipitation of aggregated lipoprotein took place. Equilibrium density gradient centrifugation of original stroma and reconstituted stromal lipoproteins proved the binding of lipid to about 60% of the protein after recombination. Chemical analysis of the isolated zones of stroma and recombined material showed similarity in the composition of the proteins and the main lipid classes. ::: ::: Electron microscopy of fixed and sectioned material revealed identical structure of original and recombined membranes; both were trilaminar, had an overall thickness of 70–80 A and were found to have an identical granular substructure of the dense layers. The recombined membranes formed stacks or concentric shells which could be clearly differentiated from “myelin figures”. The two subfractions of proteins and lipids did not form membrane-like structures.
Weeping lovegrass, Eragrostis curvula (Schrad.) Nees, was introduced to the Americas for soil conservation. It is a useful forage only if intensively managed. Apomictic lovegrass hybrids, developed from introductions with higher forage quality, need to be evaluated in multiple environments to determine their potential. Studies were to be established in Argentina the same year seed was produced in the USA. This could only be accomplished if seed dormancy was low. Seed of experimental strains were harvested in 1993 and 1994 at Temple, TX. Germination and/or emergence experiments were conducted in alternating light-dark and dark environments. A mixture of 2-chloroethanol and sodium hypochlorite (CHL) was evaluated as a dormancy breaking treatment. The lovegrass hybrids studied in these experiments varied widely in germination, because of seed dormancy. This dormancy was largely dissipated after 0.75 yr of storage in a temperature-controlled laboratory. Thus, this post-harvest dormancy is short-lived compared with that of 'A-68' lehmann lovegrass, Eragrostis lehmanniana Nees. Absence of light during germination usually inhibited germination, but in a few genotypes it promoted germination. Seed treatment with CHL compensated for absence of light. Effects of CHL on emergence did not decrease with time, but the difference between treated and untreated seed decreased as the post-harvest dormancy declined with seed ageing. Concerns about obtaining adequate plants for establishment of plots in South America the same year seed was harvested were valid. Treatment of seed with CHL was a rapid, easy, and effective procedure for breaking seed dormancy in E. curvula and in E. lehmanniana and for obtaining the numbers of plants required for evaluation experiments. However, CHL is toxic and should only be used for seed treatment in laboratories where human exposure to the chemical can be controlled.
The key step of the synthetic route was opening of the oxirane ring in 1,6:3,4-dianhydro-2- O -tosyl-β-D-galactopyranose ( 1 ) with 2-chloroethanol to give 1,6-anhydro-4- O -(2-chloroethyl)-2- O -tosyl-β-D-glucopyranose ( 2 ), which was converted in four steps into 4- O -(2-aminoethyl)-1,6:2,3-dianhydro-β-D-mannopyranose ( 6 ). The latter compound underwent intramolecular cyclisation to afford the fused morpholine derivative 3-amino-1,6-anhydro-3-deoxy-3- N ,4- O -ethylene-β-D-altropyranose ( 7 ) which gave the corresponding quaternary ammonium salt 11 by N -methylation. Acid cleavage of the 1,6-anhydro bond in 7 gave 3-acetamido-3-deoxy-3- N ,4- O -ethylene-D-altropyranose ( 9 ).
Reaction of cerium(III) acetylacetonate with lithiated tetrakis(4-pyridyl)porphyrin, tetrakis(4-(dimethylamino)-phenyl)porphyrin, and tetrakis (4-(methoxycarbonyl)phenyl)porphyrin in trichlorobenzene at 200 o C yields the corresponding neutral cerium(IV) bisporphyrinates Ce(TPyP) 2 , Ce(TMAP) 2 , and Ce(TMeCPP) 2 , respectively. Quaternarization of the former two double deckers with methyl tosylate, 2-chloroethanol, or methyl iodide produces salts of the octaalkylated cations [Ce III (TM 4 PyP) 2 ] 7+ , [Ce III (TE 4 PyP) 2 ] 7+ , and [Ce IV (TTM 4 AP) 2 ] 8+ , respectively Ce III in the two heptacations is oxidized to Ce IV with bromine to obtain the corresponding octacations
The secondary structural characteristics of one of the Robinia pseudoacacia lectins (RPA3) have been investigated by FTIR spectroscopy and have been established from absorption measurements in the amide I,I' frequency range and from the quantitative estimation of the rate of NH----N2H exchange. In an anhydrous state the protein structure consists mainly of antiparallel and parallel beta-structures, which represent 60% of the overall secondary structure of RPA3. Data obtained in different polar media (KBr, 2-chloroethanol, 2H2O, NaCl-2H2O and/or DPPC) reveal that RPA3 is a highly flexible protein. In pure 2H2O a rapid solvation of free peptide units and weak peripheral hydrogen bonds occurs, followed by the solvation of more internal parts of the lectin. The protein precipitates before total unfolding is reached. Increasing the ionic strength modifies the rate of NH----N2H exchange. NaCl concentrations of less than or equal to 0.15 M stabilize RPA3 in a structure close to that of the lyophilized lectin and diminish the rate of exchange, whereas higher NaCl concentrations partially disrupt the original secondary structure and increase the rate of exchange. Furthermore RPA3 was shown to interact with DPPC through polar interactions between the polar heads of the phospholipid and specific peptide units. These interactions appear to favor the NH----N2H exchange.
The bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus is capable of growing on short-chain haloalkanes as its sole source of carbon and energy (2). Its natural substrate 1,2-dichloroethane is degraded via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde, and chloroacetate to glycolate in four successive enzymatic reactions before it enters the organism's central metabolic routes. Brominated compounds can also be processed in this way. Two different dehalogenases are used to cleave off the halogen atoms in the first and fourth step. In the first step, a haloalkane dehalogenase catalyzes the conversion of 1,2-dichloroethane into 2-chloroethanol and chloride. The three-dimensional structure (3) and catalytic mechanism (4) of this enzyme have been elucidated by x-ray crystallography.
3,3,3-Trichloropropyl-1-triphenylphosphonium chloride is conveniently prepared from 2-chloroethanol, triphenylphosphine, and trichloroacetic acid. Deprotonation of this reagent generates 3,3,3-trichloropropyl-1-triphenylphosphorane, which reacts with aldehydes to give trichloromethylated (Z)-olefins, which are useful for the synthesis of (Z)-1,3-enynes, (Z,Z)-1-chloro-1,3-dienes, and 1,3-diynes in high yields and stereospecificities.
Abstract In the present paper the reactor design for the treatment of waste water containing organic chloroderivatives (2-chloroethanol, 2-chloro-ethoxy-ethanol and bis-(2-chloroethyl) formal) is presented. The main constrain of the reactor design is the achievement of organic chlorine concentration under the ecological limit of 10 ppm. As an optimal solution, a reactive distillation column in which R–Cl bonds are hydrolyzed in a solution of NaOH with possible recovery of ethylene oxide has been proposed. Using a simple equilibrium mathematical model of reactive distillation, an industrial column was designed. The industrial realization is presented and its results are compared with the theoretical prediction.
Abstract The structure of porcine thyrocalcitonin has been evaluated by circular dichroism, optical rotatory dispersion, infrared spectroscopy, and fluorescence. The degree of helical structure was estimated by circular dichroism (222 mµ) and optical rotatory dispersion (233 mµ) at the n → π* transition of the α helix. The optical activity at this transition suggests that thyrocalcitonin contains approximately 10% α-helical structure in aqueous solution. The spectrum of thyrocalcitonin in 6 m guanidine was similar to that of a randomly coiled polypeptide. In 2-chloroethanol, thyrocalcitonin formed a structure containing approximately 50% α helix. The near ultraviolet circular dichroic spectrum of thyrocalcitonin revealed a major band at 288 mµ, indicating that the tryptophanyl chromophore had restricted rotational freedom. Reduction and alkylation of the amino-terminal heptapeptide ring of thyrocalcitonin produced no significant change in the circular dichroic or optical rotatory spectra. In addition, the effects of alkaline pH and temperature on tryptophanyl emission were similar to the unmodified hormone. These findings preclude a high degree of organized structure in the heptapeptide ring, which is in marked contrast to the amino-terminal hexapeptide ring of oxytocin. These studies indicate that porcine thyrocalcitonin exists predominately in a random coil in aqueous solution. The polypeptide, however, does not appear to possess a rigid conformation and a coil ⇌ helix equilibrium may exist in water with guanidine shifting the equilibrium in favor of the coil and 2-chloroethanol in favor of the helix. The latter type of transition may occur at the receptor site of the hormone in lipid layers or cellular membranes where the water concentration is significantly reduced.
Main-chain imidazolium-functionalized amphiphilic block copolymers (PIL-b-PS) consisting of polyionic liquid (PIL) and polystyrene (PS) blocks have been first synthesized by condensation polymerization combined with nitroxide-mediated free radical polymerization (NMP). The di-functional imidazolium-based ionic liquid (IL) having both hydroxyl and ester end groups was synthesized through Michael addition between imidazole and methylacrylate (MA) and further quaternization by 2-chloroethanol. The HTEMPO (4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-1-piperidinyloxy) terminated polyionic liquid (HTEMPO-PIL) as the hydrophilic block was prepared by condensation polymerization of di-functional imidazolium IL and HTEMPO at a certain ratio. The hydrophobic PS block was synthesized by controlled radical polymerization of styrene using HTEMPO-PIL through NMP, resulting PIL-b-PS block copolymers. The structure of block copolymers obtained has been characterized and verified by FTIR, 1H NMR, and size exclusion chromatography analyses. In addition, the morphology and size of the micelles formed by PIL-b-PS block copolymers in water were investigated by transmission electron microscopy and dynamic light scattering. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem, 2012
The effect of water-miscible halogenoalcohols, alkylalcohols, alkoxyalcohols and aminoalcohols on the conformational stability of bovine serum albumin (BSA) and egg white lysozyme (Lys) has been examined by o.r.d. to find out why 2-chloroethanol binds preferentially to protein at low concentrations and acts as a strong helix-forming reagent. The results have been summarized as follows; (1) at low alcohol concentrations the order of helix-forming ability for BSA is halogenoalcohol > alkylalcohol > other substituted alcohols; (2) on Lys, for all concentrations, the halogenoalcohols are stronger helix-forming reagents than the others. In order to see if hydrogen bonding of the halogenoalcohols might be responsible for the denaturation, the molecular interaction between the above alcohols and N-acetylglycine-N,N′-dimethylamide, N-methylacetamide and N,N-dimethylacetamide in solutions of carbon tetrachloride were studied by i.r. and 1H n.m.r. spectroscopy.Our results show that only the halogenoalcohols have a proton-donating ability strong enough to break the inter-amide hydrogen bonds and form hydrogen bonds with the amide carbonyl, and 2-halogenated ethanols may act as bifunctional hydrogen-bonding solvents. Thus it has been concluded that, in the denaturation of protein by halogenoalcohols, the formation of hydrogen bonds with the protein should be considered as a predominant factor inducing conformational changes in the protein.
Sixteen primary alcohols of the structure RCH2OH (R = CH3, C2H5, (CH3)2CH, (CH3)3CCH2, HOCH2, CH3OCH2, C6H5, C6H5CH2, C6H5OCH2, ClCH2, BrCH2, F3C, CNCH2, (CH3)2NCH2, (C2H5)2NCH2 and tetrahydrofurfuryl) were explored for the possibility of obtaining the corresponding aldehydes by dehydrogenation on solid catalysts. Various catalysts were tested and two zinc oxide-chromium oxide catalysts were selected for further work because their activity and selectivity was satisfactory; moreover, the selectivity could be improved by addition of sodium into the catalysts and of water into the feed. The reaction was performed in the temperature range 250-450 °C and at atmospheric pressure. 2-Chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol, ethylene glycol, 2-cyanoethanol and 2-(N,N-diethylamino)ethanol decomposed and deactivated the catalyst. The other alcohols were studied from the point of kinetics of dehydrogenation, which was described by a Langmuir-Hinshelwood type rate equation (3), and of substituent effects on rate, which were correlated by Taft equation (1) with the slope ρ = -1.46. The preparative value of catalytic dehydrogenation for obtaining substituted aldehydes was confirmed by prolonged runs and isolation of the aldehydic product by distillation using as the feeds 2-methoxyethanol and 2-(N,N-dimethylamino)ethanol, respectively.
Five babies (birth weight 730 to 1,120 g) who developed bilateral pleural effusions as a complication of the use of central venous catheters are described. The effusions occurred seven to 19 days after initial placement or change of a central venous catheter. All required repeated thoracenteses to remove fluid accumulation of up to 200 mL/kg/d. The fluid was a clear transudate, but it became chylous when feedings were given. Venograms and autopsies demonstrated obstruction of the superior vena cava with drainage occurring through collaterals to the azygous vein and inferior vena cava. Silastic gas-sterilized catheters implanted in animals for four and 24 hours showed fibrin deposition when scanned by electron microscopy. No deposition occurred on autoclaved catheters after four hours and there was minimal deposition after 24 hours. It may be concluded that the pleural effusions resulted from obstruction of thoracic lymph flow into the venous system. Vena caval thrombosis may have been enhanced by 2-chloroethanol or ethylene oxide residues from gas sterilization of Silastic catheters.
This study seeks to determine the effect of tuber age and plant growth regulators (PGRs) on the duration of D. rotundata tuber dormancy. Tubers of D. rotundata var. Tdr 131, generated from pot grown tissue culture plantlets, were harvested at 75 days after planting (DAP) and at 179 DAP. A set of 30 tubers (untreated control) were observed for date of sprouting. Sets of ten tubers were subjected to one of nine treatments: water (treated control), two concentrations each of 2-chloroethanol (CLE), giberrellic acid (GA3) and CLE/thiourea combinations, and one concentration each of thiourea and ethephon at 183, 214, 269 and 331 DAP. The 50th percentile duration from harvest to sprouting ranged from 152 to 166 d in all controls, and 146 to 184 d in the PGR treatments (corresponding to 26 March and 12 May) depending on PGR. Tuber age at PGR application did not affect the duration from harvest to sprouting but the ethylene analogues: 60 ml l-1 CLE + 20 g l-1 thiourea and 1000 mg l -1ethephon shortened it by 32 d while 1000 mg l-1 GA3 prolonged it by 24 d.
Modification of cotton non-woven fabrics through the hydroxyethylation of cellulose using 2-chloroethanol (CE) was carried out in a two-step process of sodium hydroxide pre-treatment and CE reaction in a reaction medium of isopropyl alcohol (IPA) aqueous solution. The effects of sodium hydroxide concentration in the pre-treatment, IPA and CE concentrations, and treatment conditions of the second step were analyzed, along with washing media after treatment on the reacted amounts (add-ons) of CE and property changes of the fabrics. The add-ons of modified samples pre-treated with sodium hydroxide solution of a constant concentration and reacted with CE of different concentrations increased, reached a maximum, and then decreased with increasing CE concentration. The maximum add-on, i.e., the most effective reaction, was obtained when the molar ratio of NaOH/AGU in the pre-treatment and that of CE/AGU in the second treatment was similar. The moisture regain of the modified fabric increased almost linearly with the add-on of CE, indicating increased hydrophilicity. The hydroxyethylated fibers in the modified fabric with high add-ons were damaged severely and stuck together when the modified fabric was washed with water. However, the modified fibers obtained by washing with IPA solutions maintained their fiber shape with increased diameter even at a high add-on of up to 30%. Although the individual fibers might be deteriorated by hydroxyethylation, the tensile strength of the modified non-woven fabric obtained by washing with IPA solution increased compared to the untreated sample, because of the increase in diameter of the fibers, and thus the increased entanglements of the fibers in the fiber assembly of the nonwoven fabric. Apparent dye uptake, as measured by the K/S value, of the hydroxyethylated fabric dyed with a reactive dye also increased linearly with increasing add-on amount. The K/S value of a modified fabric with an add-on of 3.5% was four times higher than that of the untreated sample, indicating that the microstructure of the cotton fiber was affected dramatically by hydroxyethylation.
Reaction of 2-chloroethanol with potassium tellurocyanate gave a new heterocycle namely 1,3-oxatellura-2-imine 1 in a good yield. Halogenation of organotelluride 1 with SOCl2, bromine and iodine gave dichloro, dibromo and diiodo organic tellurium compounds, Treatment of 1 with alkyl halides gave new organic tellurium compounds. Hydrolysis of 1 afforded a new cyclic telluride. All the new synthesized compounds were characterized by elemental analysis (CHN), IR, 1H and 13C NMR spectra
23 90CE was designed to generate a unique primary chloroethylating species (ClCH 2 CH 2 NNSO 2 CH 3 ), but this intermediate could potentially give rise to three other secondary chloroethylating species (2-chloroethyldiazohydroxide, 2-chloroethyldiazonium, and chloronium ions) that are in common with those believed to be generated by BCNU (Figure 1) . 5, 7 Nevertheless, the pattern of DNA alkylation by 90CE appears to have a greater O-6 guanine to N-7 guanine alkylation bias under biologically relevant conditions and in in vitro and in vivo models than that of BCNU. 7, 9, 16 We have previously studied the decomposition mechanism of 90CE in non-Pi and low Pi buffers; 5 under these conditions, 90CE appears to decompose in a relatively simplistic manner, as initially intended by design, to generate approximately two moles of methanesulfinate, one mole of nitrogen gas, and one mole of 2-chloroethanol, produced as a consequence of the chloroethylation of water (Figure 1 ). It was found that the rate determining step during the decomposition of 90CE and 1,2-bis(sulfonyl)-1-alkylhydrazines was the elimination of the N-1 sulfonyl moiety from the 1,2-bis(sulfonyl)-1-alkylhydrazine anion, 5 which in the case of 90CE results in the formation of the primary chloroethylating species ClCH 2 CH 2 NNSO 2 CH 3 ( Figure 1 ). Subsequently, we have found that in the presence of high concentrations of Pi, the alkylation of 4-(4-nitrobenzyl)-pyridine (4NBP) by 90CE was greatly increased. 4NBP is the most commonly used colorimetric reagent for determining alkylating activity, and the pyridine nitrogen which serves as the nucleophilic target in this molecule is a moderately soft site. 24 Thus, 4NBP would normally be expected to be poorly alkylated by 90CE, as is found in the absence of Pi. This Pi dependent change in character was not observed with 1,2-bis-(methylsulfonyl)-1-methylhydrazine (KS90), the methylating analogue of 90CE. In view of the ubiquitous cellular presence of Pi, this interaction was further investigated, and a second decomposition pathway for 90CE has been elucidated. The implications of these findings in terms of future drug designs, tumor cell selectivity, agent toxicity, and possible novel resistance mechanisms are discussed.
Determination of 2-Chloroethanol. Chloroethanol is generated as a consequence of the chloroethylation of water by 90CE. Water is a particularly good trapping agent since it is present at a concentration of ∼55 M, which results in it sequestering the vast majority of the harder electrophiles generated.
13 Since 2-chloroethanol lacks any strong spectroscopic features and is relatively unreactive, it is necessary to transform it into a chromophoric derivative. Therefore, the 2-chloroethanol was oxidized to its corresponding aldehyde using Pichia pastoris alcohol oxidase (AO), a relatively nonspecific enzyme which oxidizes short-chain, linear aliphatic alcohols to their respective aldehydes. 29, 30 The resultant aldehyde was then reacted with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (2,4-DNPH) to generate a hydrazone product which was quantified by HPLC. To 0. 
(5 μL of 100 mM 90CE in DMSO) was added. The 0 mM Pi buffer experiments contained 20 mM Tris (pH 7.4) to allow the decomposition to fully proceed, which would normally slow substantially as the pH fell, due to the liberation of methanesulfinic acid. These mixtures were incubated for 5 min at 40°C, then diluted 10-fold with distilled H 2 O. To 0.5 mL of this diluted mixture, 10 unit/ mL of AO was added and the mixture incubated for 30 min at 40°C in sealed tubes with occasional shaking to maintain aeration. Aliquots (0.5 mL) were then mixed with an equal volume of a 0.4% solution of 2,4-DNPH in CH 3 CN and 50 μL of 1 M HClO 4 , and the mixture incubated at 40°C for 5 min and then assayed directly by HPLC. The HPLC protocol utilized a 250 mm × 4.6 mm Varian Microsorb 100-5 C-18 reverse phase column (Varian Inc., Lake Forest, California, USA) and a constant composition buffer (52.5% CH 3 CN and 47.5% 30 mM potassium phosphate, pH 5.4) at a flow rate of 0.8 mL/min. The hydrazone eluted at ∼16.3 min and was monitored at 370 nm. All HPLC measurements were performed using a Beckman 127P solvent module and a Beckman 168 UV/vis detector (Beckman, Fullerton, CA, USA). This assay gave good linearity in the test range using authentic 2-chloroethanol samples and was not significantly affected by the initial buffer composition. The limit of 2-chloroethanol detection using this method was ∼1 μM. Assays were compared with identical reagent blanks containing all components except 90CE.
Determination of Acetaldehyde. Acetaldehyde yields were determined using a protocol identical to that used for measuring 2-chloroethanol, except that the addition of and incubation with AO were not required. The assay was calibrated using authentic acetaldehyde standards, and the resultant hydrazone eluting at 14.9 min gave a linear AUC (area under the curve) for the resultant hydrazone peak versus the initial concentration of acetaldehyde. The AUC of the hydrazone product peak over that of DMSO controls was used to calculate the acetaldehyde yields by comparison with authentic standards. Assays were compared with identical reagent blanks containing all components except 90CE. The limit of detection was approximately 1 μM.
Determination of Ethylene Glycol. Ethylene glycol was measured in a manner similar to that used with 2-chloroethanol, except that a longer 60 min incubation with AO was utilized to oxidize the ethylene glycol to glyoxal since ethylene glycol is a poorer substrate for this enzyme. Even with this longer incubation time, the oxidation was not complete, and the yield of glyoxal was approximately 50% at all concentrations (based upon comparisons with authentic glyoxal samples). In addition, the hydrazone generated from glyoxal required the use of an increased CH 3 CN concentration (75% CH 3 CN and 25% 30 mM potassium phosphate, pH 5.4) in the HPLC protocol compared to the previous method to avoid excessively long elution times. Under these revised HPLC conditions, the hydrazone product eluted at ∼9 min. Ethylene glycol standards gave a linear AUC for the resultant hydrazone peak versus the initial concentration of ethylene glycol. The AUC of the glyoxal hydrazone product peak over that of DMSO controls was used to calculate the ethylene glycol yield by comparison with authentic standards. The limit of detection was approximately 3 μM.
2-Chloroethanol (1.3 ml, 19.2 mmol) and potassium carbonate (1.32 g, 9.6 mmol) were added to 2-methylthio-5-nitro-1H-benzimidazole (1.15 g, 4.8 mmol) in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) (10 ml). The reaction mixture was agitated for 5 h at room temperature. 50 ml of water was then added to the reaction mixture, and the products were extracted with dichloromethane (3 Â 50 ml). The combined organic extracts were washed with ammonium chloride solution (10 g of ammonium chloride in 100 ml of water), dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. 106.56; 110.03; 112.87; 117.13; 136.38; 147.37; 155.52 (C4, C5, C6, C7, C8, C9); 162.23 (C N).
The conformation of a low-sulphur soluble wool keratin derivative (SCMKA) has been studied by optical rotatory dispersion. On the assumption that the overall conformation consists of a mixture of a-helical and random-coil regions, this protein has a helical content of about 50% in aqueous solution at pH 9·1; this helical content does not vary with the degree of severity of the preparative procedure. The protein may be reversibly converted to the random-coil form by heating to 70°0, or by treatment with urea at concentrations exceeding 6r.r. An increase in pH to 12·5 causes very little change in conformation, such change as does occur being reversible. The maximum helical content which has been induced by solvents into the protein is about 62% in 2-chloroethanol. This probably represents the upper limit of the helical content of this protein as it occurs in the fibre. The changes in the conforma. tion of the protein which occur in several other solvents are briefly discussed.
Haloalkane dehalogenase is a bacterial enzyme, which catalyzes hydrolytic cleavage of the carbon−halogen bond of haloalkanes. Quantum mechanical calculations at the semiempirical level using the MOPAC/DRIVER methodology were applied to study the enzymatic hydrolysis of 1,2-dichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol. In our previous study, the first SN2 step of dehalogenation reaction was investigated (Damborský, J.; Kutý, M.; Němec, M.; Koca, J. A Molecular Modeling Study of the Catalytic Mechanism of Haloalkane Dehalogenase: 1. Quantum Chemical Study of the First Reaction Step. J. Chem. Inf. Comput. Sci. 1997, 37, 562−568). The present contribution explores the complete three-step reaction to determine the rate-limiting reaction step and to investigate the importance of active site residues for the kinetics and thermodynamics of the hydrolysis. The nucleophilic addition (AdN) step has the highest energy barrier, which is in qualitative agreement with experimental rates, assigning the second hydrolytic step as th...
Abstract Solvent-induced coil to helix conformational change of poly( l -lysine hydrobromide) (P l L · HBr) and poly( l -ornithine hydrobromide) (P l O · HBr) in water-2-chloroethanol (CE) mixed solvent has been studied at 25°C. Circular dichroism and viscosity measurements indicate that the transition occurs only at very high CE content and that the helical conformation is obtained more easily for P l L · HBr than for P l O · HBr. Heats of dilution measurements show a strong exothermic interaction between CE and each polymer in water-rich systems, whereas in CE-rich systems the interaction becomes endothermic. Heat capacity values of P l L · HBr solutions show an important minimum in the water-rich region, indicating a strong interaction between species.
Valacyclovir was synthesized from 2-chloroethanol by chloromethylation and reaction with CH_3ONa to give 1-chloro-2-(acetoxymethoxy)ethane,which was subjected to condensation with 2,9-diacetyl guanine, deacetylation,reaction with sodium N-[(1-ethoxycarbonyl)-2-allyl]-L-valine and then hydrolysis with an overall yield of about 18.4%(based on 2,9-diacetyl guanine).
A method for the determination of 2-chloroethanol in ethylene oxide sterilized surgical materials is described. The 2-chloroethanol is extracted under vacuum, condensed in a cold trap, and quantitative determinations made by GLC. The method is compared with acetone and water extractions.
The dimeric and trimeric 2-(p-tolyloxy)ethyl acetateformaldehyde polymer model compounds and the halogenated compound of the dimer were synthesized. 2,2′-Methylenebis(5-methyl-1,2-phenyleneoxy)diethyl acetate was synthesized by the reaction of 2-(p-tolyloxy)ethyl acetate with formaldehyde in acidic media. 2-[2-(2-Acetoxyethoxy-3-chloro-5-methylbenzyl)-4-methylphenoxy]ethyl acetate was prepared by the reaction of 6-chloro-4,4′-dimethyl-2,2′-methylenediphenol with 2-chloroethanol, followed by treatment with acetic anhydride, and 2-[2,6-bis(2-acetoxyethoxy-5-methylbenzyl)-4-methylphenoxy]ethyl acetate from 2,6-bis(2-hydroxy-5-methylbenzyl)-4-methylphenol.
The enthalpies of mixing have been determined for five kinds of aqueous amino acids solutions (glycine, L-alanine, L-valine, L-serine, and L-proline) with 2-chloroethanol by an LKB-2277 Bio Activity Monitor at 298.15 K. In addition, the enthalpies of dilution at 298.15 K of aqueous solutions containing the five kinds of amino acids and 2-chloroethanol have been obtained. The heterotactic enthalpic pairwise interaction coefficients of the virial expansion of excess enthalpy were evaluated and interpreted from the point of view of solute–solute interactions. In comparison with ethanol, 2-chloroethanol shows a stronger exothermic interaction with amino acids because of its hydrophilic Cl atom and a more acidic −OH group. Using the additivity groups concept by Savage and Wood (SWAG), contributions of each of functional group of the amino acids and ethanol and 2-chloroethanol have been estimated.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) has been used on grapevines to accelerate grape growth, and its metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), accumulated in the liver and blood from rats intoxicated with 2-CE. Chronic occupational injury might be a possible reason for the 2-CE intoxication. In this study, we used the in vitro and in vivo tests to examine the genotoxicity of 2-CE and CAA. First, 2-CE did not induce chromosome aberration formation in Chinese ovary hamster cells, but CAA did induce chromosome aberration formation, especially the chromosome gap-type aberration after S9 activation. Second, 2-CE at high doses (1/2 LD50), but not at low doses, induced peripheral blood micronucleus formation in mice. CAA induced micronucleus formation at low and high dosages (1/8-1/2 LD50). These results indicated that CAA plays an important role in 2-CE chronic intoxication, and the genotoxic mechanisms of CAA require further study.
Viscosity and preferential solvation measurements were carried out on maleic acid-ethyl- and -butyl vinyl ether alternating copolymers (MA-EVE and MA-BVE, respectively) in watermethanol and water-2-chloroethanol mixtures. The conformational transition of MA-BVE was found to be strongly related to the solvation of the polymer by 2-chloroethanol. Comparison of experimental results on MA-BVE, MA-EVE, and poly(methacrylic acid) (PMA) in water-2-chloroethanol mixtures indicates that the behaviour of MA-EVE is different from that of MA-BVE and PMA because it does not undergo any conformational transition.
This report is a part of a comparative study where skin pathology, blood concentrations and percutaneous toxicity after epicutaneous administration of solvents are investigated. The method used for the study of percutaneous toxicity proved capable of differentiating between different applied amounts of 2-chloroethanol. This solvent was found to be highly toxic, even 0.10 ml killed all 20 exposed animals within 24 h. A 35% aqueous solution killed about half of the animals, while a 10% solution killed only 1 out of 20. A comparative study with intraperitoneal administration of the same amounts as epicutaneously, showed that the mortality and mean time until death diminished with rising amounts (with only one exception).
Changes in the macromolecular parameters of trypsin in the presence of 2-chloroethanol in aqueous solutions have been studied by means of optical and hydrodynamic methods. At temperature--dependent volume fraction of 2-chloroethanol in solution upsilon t < 0.30 the globular structure of trypsin is destroyed but the regularity of polypeptide chains within the limits of secondary structure is maintained. At 0.30 < upsilon < 0.80 the solvation envelope of macromolecules is kept constant mainly owing to hydration, but the solubilization takes place only at upsilon < 0.30. At upsilon < 0.80 spiralization sharply increases and reaches in pure 2-chloroethanol its maximum value (50%). The intrinsic viscosity moreover reaches only half the whole value [eta]coil--[eta]glob.
Abstract The dissociation of an avian hemoglobin, chick oxyhemoglobin 1, was studied in the presence of ionic type (LiCl, NaCl, KCl and CaCl 2 ) and non-ionic type solutes (formamide, urea, guanidine hydrochloride and 2-chloroethanol), and in high alkaline pH conditions. An increase in the solute concentration and alkalinity of media produced increasing dissociation as measured by sedimentation velocity coefficient values. Sedimentation equilibrium studies employing an ultraviolet monochromator and automatic double-beam photoelectric scanner revealed that an equilibrium state exists between the different subunits, tetramer, dimer, and monomer, depending on the condition of the media. Alkaline dissociation of chick hemoglobin to half-molecule began at pH 10.6 and was completed at pH 11.6. The degree of alkaline dissociation implies that chick hemoglobin is more resistant than the mammalian hemoglobins, adult human and bovine hemoglobins. Localized conformational change as evaluated by the solvent perturbation difference spectra was observed with CaCl 2 , and all non-ionic solutes. Spectrophotometric titration of tyrosine ionization showed that of the 17 tyrosine residues evaluated by amino acid analysis of chick hemoglobin 1, 15 tyrosine residues were ionized at pH 12.5–pH 12.75 and 8 tyrosine residues became available between pH 10.3 to pH 11.3 where tetrameric chick hemoglobin dissociated to half-molecule. Urea was more effective in reducing heme-heme interaction and producing hyperbolar oxygen equilibrium curves than NaCl. The transition from sigmoidic to hyperbolar oxygen equilibrium curve is dependent on the solute concentration.
Molybdenum pentachloride, MoCl 5 [1] , is a commercial compound which has found increasing employment as catalytic precursor in organic synthesis, due to the easy availability and peculiar chemical properties [2] . Although MoCl 5 is highly moisture-sensitive, its use is considered as environmentally acceptable since such halide converts into biocompatible salts in aqueous solution [3] . In agreement with the principle that advancing in the knowledge of the coordination chemistry of transition metal compounds may contribute to the development of the relevant catalysis [4] , we have been recently involved in a systematic study of the reactivity of MoCl 5 with oxygen atom donors [5] . The present paper focuses on the reactions of MoCl 5 with limited amounts of aliphatic alcohols, including compounds bearing an additional functionality (i.e. 2-chloroethanol, N,Ndiethylamino-2-ethanol and 2-methoxyethanol).
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) has been used on grapevines to accelerate grape growth, and its metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), accumulated in the liver and blood from rats intoxicated with 2-CE. Chronic occupational injury might be a possible reason for the 2-CE intoxication. In this study, we used the in vitro and in vivo tests to examine the genotoxicity of 2-CE and CAA. First, 2-CE did not induce chromosome aberration formation in Chinese ovary hamster cells, but CAA did induce chromosome aberration formation, especially the chromosome gap-type aberration after S9 activation. Second, 2-CE at high doses (1/2 LD 50 ), but not at low doses, induced peripheral blood micronucleus formation in mice. CAA induced micronucleus formation at low and high dosages (1/8-1/2 LD 50 ). These results indicated that CAA plays an important role in 2-CE chronic intoxication, and the genotoxic mechanisms of CAA require further study.
Background and Aims The control of dormancy in yam (Disocorea spp.) tubers is poorly understood and attempts to shorten the long dormant period (i.e. cause tubers to sprout or germinate much earlier) have been unsuccessful. The aim of this study was to identify and define the phases of dormancy in Dioscorea rotundata tubers, and to produce a framework within which dormancy can be more effectively studied. Methods Plants of ‘TDr 131’ derived from tissue culture were grown in a glasshouse simulating temperature and photoperiod at Ibadan (7N), Nigeria to produce tubers. Tubers were sampled on four occasions: 30d before shoot senescence (149 days after planting, DAP), at shoot senescence (179 DAP), and twice during storage at a constant 25 C (269 and 326 DAP). The development of the apical shoot bud was described from tissue sections. In addition, the responsiveness of shoot apical bud development to plant growth regulators (gibberellic acid, 2-chloroethanol and thiourea) applied to excised tuber sections was also examined 6 and 12d after treatment. Key Results and Conclusions Three phases of tuber dormancy are proposed: Phase I, from tuber initiation to the appearance of the tuber germinating meristem; Phase II, from the tuber germinating meristem to initiation of foliar primordium; and Phase III, from foliar primordium to appearance of the shoot bud on the surface of the tuber. Phase I is the longest phase (approx. 220d in ‘TDr 131’), is not affected by PGRs and is proposed to be an endo-dormant phase. Phases II and III are shorter (<70d in total), are influenced by PGRs and environmental conditions, and are therefore endo-/eco-dormant phases. To manipulate dormancy to allow off-season planting and more than one generation per year requires that the duration of Phase I is shortened.
Abstract Hierarchical In 2 O 3 rod-like microbundles were fabricated via the Pluronic F127–(EO 106 PO 70 EO 106 –) assisted hydrothermal reaction followed by calcining the In(OH) 3 precursors. The results revealed that the In 2 O 3 microarchitectures were constructed with well-aligned one-dimensional (1D) single-crystalline nanorods with highly uniform morphologies and particular exposed facets. Structural analysis suggested that the In 2 O 3 nanorods were enclosed by {1 1 0} and {0 0 1} facets. The triblock copolymer acted as a structure-directing agent and played a key role in the formation of In(OH) 3 microbundles. The formation of the precursors In(OH) 3 microbundles was studied through contrastive experiments and computational simulation, which can be contributed to the soft-template-directed self-assembly mechanism. The gas sensing properties of the as-prepared In 2 O 3 microbundles were investigated. Compared to the samples prepared in the absence of F127, the In 2 O 3 microbundles exhibited a superior sensing performance toward 2-chloroethanol vapor, which can be explained by hierarchically ordered structures and exposed crystal surfaces.
Efonidipine hydrochloride was synthesized(in ionic liquid 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate([bmin]PF_6)) from N-phenylbenzylamine by nucleophilic substitution with 2-chloroethanol,ester exchange with ethyl acetoacetate,condensation with ammonium acetate,(5,5-dimethyl-1,3,2-dioxaphosphorinan-2-yl) propanone P-oxide(6) and 3-nitrobenzaldehyde,followed by salt formation.The total yield was about 43%(based on N-phenylbenzylamine).
Methods Plants of 'TDr 131' derived from tissue culture were grown in a glasshouse simulating temperature and photoperiod at Ibadan (7 N), Nigeria to produce tubers. Tubers were sampled on four occasions: 30 d before shoot senescence (149 days after planting, DAP), at shoot senescence (179 DAP), and twice during storage at a constant 25 C (269 and 326 DAP). The development of the apical shoot bud was described from tissue sections. In addition, the responsiveness of shoot apical bud development to plant growth regulators (gibberellic acid, 2-chloroethanol and thiourea) applied to excised tuber sections was also examined 6 and 12 d after treatment.
The synthesis and characterization of 2,3-dihydro-6-methyl-2-thioxopyrimidin-(1H)-one (I) and some of its derivatives has been performed in our lab. Ring-closing cyclization, as a result of the condensation of ethyl-3-oxobutanoate with thiourea in KOH in an ethanol medium produced 2,3-dihydro-6-methy -2-thioxopyrimidin-(1H)-one (I). The reaction of compound (I) with 2- chloroacetic acid in an alkaline KOH solution produced the carboxylate derivative, 2-(2,6-dihydro-4-methyl-6-oxopyrimidin-2-yl-thio)ethanoic acid (II). The reaction of the resulted derivative of carboxylate (II) with the salt of copper sulphate, produced a new copper salt (III). A substitution reaction between synthesized compound (I) and 2-chloroethanol in an aqueous solution of KOH, created 2-(2-hydroxyethylthio)-6-methylpyrimidin-4(3H)-one (IV). The reaction of compound (I) with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane in the presence of an aqueous solution of KOH, resulted yielded 2-(3-chloro-2-hydroxy-propylthio)-6-methylpyrimidin-4(3H)-one (V). Sodium mercaptide compound (VI), was produced by the reaction of (I) with NaOH and then the sodium salt of 2,3-dihydro-6-methyl-2-thioxopyrimidin-(1H)-one (VI) was reacted with 2-(chloromethyl)oxirane to result in 2-((oxiran-2-yl) methyl-thio)-6-methyl-pyrimidin-4(3H)-one (VII). Different acylation reagents (acetyl chloride, benzoyl chloride) were reacted with compound (I), in dimethylformamide, acylation happens on sulfur and furnished S-acylified derivatives of (VIII-IX). All the synthesized and obtained products were confirmed by IR, 1H, and 13C NMR and elemental analysis.
There is limited knowledge of interspecies interactions in biofilm communities. In this study, Pseudomonas sp. GJ1, a 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) degrading organism, and Pseudomonas putida DMP1, a p-cresol degrader, produced distinct biofilms in response to model mixed waste streams comprised of 2-CE and various p-cresol concentrations. The two organisms maintained a commensal relationship, with DMP1 mitigating the inhibitory effects of p-cresol on GJ1. A triple labeling technique compatible with confocal microscopy was used to investigate the influence of toxicant concentrations on biofilm morphology, species distribution, and exopolysaccharide production. Single species biofilms of GJ1 shifted from loosely associated cell clusters connected by exopolysaccharide to densely-packed structures as p-cresol concentrations increased, and biofilm formation was severely inhibited at high p-cresol concentrations. In contrast, GJ1 was abundant when associated with DMP1 in a dual species biofilm at all p-cresol concentrations, although at high p-cresol concentrations it was only present in regions of the biofilm where it was surrounded by DMP1. Evidence in support of a commensal relationship between DMP1 and GJ1 was obtained by comparing GJ1-DMP1 biofilms with dual species biofilms containing GJ1 and Escherichia coli 33456, an adhesive strain that does not mineralize p-cresol. Additionally, the data indicated that only tower-like cell structures in the GJ1-DMP1 biofilm produced exopolysaccharide, in contrast to the uniform distribution of EPS in the single-species GJ1 biofilm.
To optimize yields, the study of reaction kinetics related to the synthesis of 2-hydroxyethylhydrazine (HEH) obtained from the alkylation of N2H4 by 2-chloroethanol (CletOH) was carried out with and without sodium hydroxide. In both cases, the main reaction of HEH formation was followed by a consecutive, parallel reaction of HEH alkylation (or dialkylation of N2H4), leading to the formation of two isomers: 1,1-di(hydroxyethyl)hydrazine and 1,2-di(hydroxyethyl)hydrazine. In this study, hydrazine and hydroxyalkylhydrazine alkylations followed SN2 reactions triggered directly by CletOH or indirectly in the presence of a strong base by ethylene oxide, an intermediate compound. The kinetics was studied in diluted mediums by quantifying HEH and CletOH by gas chromatography and gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The activation parameters of each reaction and the influence of a strong base present in the medium on the reaction mechanisms were established. A global mathematical treatment was applied for each alternative. It allowed modeling the reactions as a function of reagent concentrations and temperature. In the case of direct alkylation by CletOH, simulation was established for semi-batch and batch syntheses and was confirmed in experiments for concentrated mediums (1.0 M ≤ [CletOH]0 ≤ 3.2 M and 15.7 M ≤ [N2H4]0 ≤ 18.8 M). Simulation therefore permits the prediction of the instantaneous concentration of reagents and products, in particular ethylene oxide concentration in the case of indirect alkylation, which must be as weak as possible. © 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 41: 382–393, 2009
Abstract A study on α1-acid glycoprotein by various techniques was carried out to investigate certain conformational transitions associated with the release of the buried tryptophan residues of this protein. The reactive tryptophan residues of α1-acid glycoprotein were determined with Koshland's reagent (2-hydroxy-5-nitrobenzylbromide). As solvents, sodium acetate buffers, pH 4.4, containing increasing concentrations of 2-chloroethanol or guanidine hydrochloride were used. In sodium acetate buffer alone, 2 of the 4 tryptophan residues were found to be reactive. In the presence of 50% 2-chloroethanol or 3 m guanidine hydrochloride, or after incubation at pH 13 for 30 min, all 4 residues reacted with Koshland's reagent. These results, together with the changes in the specific optical rotation and optical rotatory dispersion observed in the mentioned solvents, are discussed in relation to the changes in the structure of this protein induced by these solvents. In 2-chloroethanol a reversible transition of the β conformation of the native protein to a conformation that has properties similar to those of an α-helical structure was observed. In guanidine hydrochloride the conformation of α1-acid glycoprotein was also reversibly altered, but yielded a random coil structure. Incubation at pH 13 caused irreversible denaturation. Further, this study showed that the sialyl residues of this typical glycoprotein do not significantly influence the conformational transitions of its polypeptide chain. In a correlated study, the optical rotatory dispersion of the glycopeptide mixture derived from native α1-acid glycoprotein was determined and shown to account for only a small percentage of the optical rotatory dispersion of the glycoprotein. Hence, the Cotton effect of glycoproteins is essentially due to the conformation of their polypeptide moieties.
A new type cationic surfucant-dodecyl dimethyl hydroxyethyl ammonium chloride was syhthesized from 2-chloroethanol and dimethyl laurylamine.The synthetic technolgy and properties of the solution were discussed.It was proved that the product can be builted with AES perfectly.
Abstract Male rats were given a single oral dose (40 mg/kg) of bis(2-chloroethyl)ether (BCEE). Less than 2% of the dose was recovered from the expired air as the unaltered parent compound during an 8-hr collection period. Urine samples representing 48 hr of collection were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Methyl ester/trimethylsilyl ether derivatives of the isolated urinary acid fraction were prepared for gas-phase analysis. Two metabolites were identified in this fraction: thiodiglycolic acid (TDGA) and 2-chloroethyl β- d -glucosiduronic acid. Quantitative analysis for TDGA gave an average (seven rats) yield for 48 hr of 33 ± 11.8 mg (± SD) of TDGA/kg from a single dose of 40 mg/kg BCEE. The glucuronide of 2-chloroethanol was synthesized using rabbit liver microsomes in an incubation mixture. The matching mass spectrum of the glucuronide prepared in vitro to that identified in the urine of the rats verified 2-chloroethyl β- d -glucosiduronic acid as a metabolite of BCEE.
Bioremediation strategies for an industrial site located in the Rotterdam Harbor Area, the Netherlands and contaminated with 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA), are under investigation. The contamination is present in a confined anaerobic aquifer. The objective of the research is to assess the potential of intrinsic (bio )degradation and enhanced biodegradation as effective risk reducing measures. Close to the contaminant source, 1,2-DCA is present at concentrations up to 500 mg per liter. From the possible intrinsic dechlorination products of 1,2-DCA (i.e. 2-chloroethanol, vinylchloride, chloroethane and ethene), vinylchloride (VC) is occuring at relatively high concentrations (up to 2 mg/liter). The type, rate and parameter dependency of the dechlorination processes occurring in this aquifer are currently being investigated by analyzing groundwater concentration profiles of the dechlorination products and by performing laboratory studies with material from the contaminated site. First results indicate that natural attenuation alone, is not sufficient to prevent the plume from further spreading. Therefore a field study at pilot-scale is underway to evaluate remediation strategies which are designed from screening studies at the laboratory scale.
To ::: study the ground and singlet excited state hydrogen bonding donor/acceptor properties of the betacarboline ::: ring, 9H-pyrido[3,4-b]indole, we have carried out a spectroscopic study of the interactions of harmane, 1-methylbetacarboline, HN, and its N9-methyl derivative, MHN, with different hydrogen bonding acceptor/donor ::: molecules in the non-polar solvent cyclohexane. UV–visible, steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence ::: measurements show that HN and MHN form fluorescent 1:1 ground state hydrogen bonded pyridinic complexes ::: with the hydrogen bond donors tert-butanol, 2-chloroethanol and hexafluoropropan-2-ol. At high ::: concentrations, the strongest hydrogen bond donors chloroethanol and hexafluoropropan-2-ol form additional ::: proton transfer ground-state 1:2 hydrogen-bonded complexes which, upon photoexcitation, give phototautomers ::: of zwitterionic structures. The aromatic donor phenol also forms hydrogen bonded pyridinic ::: complexes with HN, but zwitterionic species are not observed. Furthermore, the hydrogen bonding HN–phenol ::: interaction quenches the HN fluorescence. On the other hand, the interactions of HN with the ::: proton acceptors tetrahydrofuran, N,N-dimethylformamide and hexamethylphosphoramide also give fluorescent ::: 1:1 hydrogen bonded pyrrolic complexes which do not form phototautomeric zwitterions. These results conclusively ::: show that the formation of zwitterionic phototautomers involves the initial attack of a hydrogen bonding ::: donor molecule on the pyridinic ::: nitrogen atom of ::: the betacarboline and ::: the formation of a 1:2 proton transfer complex.
Water pipe materials can have significant effect on tap water quality. Recent reports evidenced that plastic pipes used to construct water distribution network in homes can leach potential amounts of harmful organic contaminants into tap water. In this work, the migration of phenolic and volatile organic compounds into tap water has been investigated. For this purpose, 30 samples were collected from homes within Al Medina Al Munawarah municipal residential area and analyzed for the existence of 2-butanone, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, carbon tetrachloride, 1,2-dichloropropane, 2-chloroethanol, 4-methyl-2-propanone, 1,2-dinitrophenol, pentachlorophenol and 1,2,3-trichloropropane. The most frequent compounds such as 2-butanone, 1,2,3-trichloropropane, 1,2-dinitrophenol, 4-methyl-2-propanone and 2-chloroethanol were monitored in 90%, 76%, 66%, 60% and 60% of samples, respectively. Meanwhile the levels of the compounds, 2-butanone, carbon tetrachloride and pentachlorophenol exceeded the WHO limits in 40%, 16% and 30% of samples, respectively. The migration test indicated that five of the targeted compounds occur in deionized water samples incubated in pipes in laboratory scale experiment. This implies that these pollutants are more likely to migrate from polyethylene pipes comprising home plumbing network. Although the levels of some percolated compounds were below the allowable levels, their accumulation during lengthy consumption can potentially increase the exposure to harmful constituents in water. As a prevention step, the use of sorbent filtration kits is recommended.
1 ::: Transient-state kinetic methods, based on the use of pyrazole as a displacing reagent and reporter ligand, have been applied to examine the pH dependence of rate and equilibrium constants for 2-chloroethanol and 2,2-dichloroethanol binding to the binary complex formed between liver alcohol dehydrogenase and NAD+. ::: ::: 2 ::: The apparent affinity of the enzyme · NAD+ complex for the examined alcohol, is dependent on two proton dissociation equilibria. One of these equilibria affects the rate of alcohol association to the binary complex with a ligand-independent pKa value of 7.6, attributable to ionization of zinc-bound water in the enzyme · NAD+ complex. The second proton dissociation equilibrium regulates the rate of alcohol desorption from the enzyme · NAD+· alcohol complex and exhibits a pKa value of 5.4 and 4.5, respectively, with 2-chloroethanol and 2,2′-dichloroethanol as the ligand. Steady-state kinetic data are reported which indicate that the pKa-5.4-equilibrium controls also the apparent rate of enzymic hydride transfer from 2-chloroethanol to NAD+. ::: ::: 3 ::: These results lend strong support to the mechanism of enzyme action proposed by Kvassman and Pettersson according to which the enzyme · NAD+· alcohol complex participates in an obligatory proton dissociation step which regulates both desorption and catalytic oxidation of the alcohol ligand. The corresponding pKa value is shown to be lineary dependent on the pKa of the free alcohol ligand with a regression coefficient (Bronstedt α value) of about 0.6. The latter observation provides direct evidence that the effect of pH on the reactivity of the enzyme · NAD+· alcohol complex reflects an alcohol/alcoholate ion equilibration of the enzyme-bound substrate. ::: ::: 4 ::: The particular mode of binding and properties of the active-site zinc ion in liver alcohol dehydrogenase suggest that the catalytic function of the metal ion can be related primarily to facilitation of the process of alcohol oxidation through facilitation of the alcoholate ion formation step now established to precede hydride transfer to NAD+.
1. ::: ::: A study has been made of the addition of 2-chloroethanol to alkyl vinyl ethers. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: It has been shown that the reaction is brought about in a very simple manner — by mixing equimolecular amounts of the components—and is accompanied by an exothermic effect. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Five new alkyl 2-chloroethyl acetals have, been prepared: the 2-chloroethyl methyl, 2-chloroethyl propyl, 2-chloroethyl isopropyl, 2-chloroethyl isobutyl, and 2-chloroethyl isopentyl acetals of acetaldehyde. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: These acetals, like other mixed acetals, are able to undergo disproportionation with formation of two symmetrical, dialkyl and bis(2-chloroethyl), acetals.
γ-Irradiation prior to sterilization with ethylene oxide is shown to enhance 2-chloroethanol formation in a surgical, hospital grade, polyvinyl chloride tubing. The site of formation and the insignificantly low 2-chloroethanol levels produced in this manner are discussed.
Spectroscopic studies have been made of whole histone and histone fractions from calf thymus and chicken erythrocyte. Optical rotatory dispersion studies show that in water the lysine rich fractions F1 and Ib are random while the moderately lysine rich and arginine rich fractions have a low helix content (of the order of 10%). Increasing the salt molarity (NaCl) or pH of aqueous solutions causes a marked increase in helix content to about 25–30% from the fractions other than the lysine rich fractions which show an increase of only 10%. The fractions are capable of a higher helix content as is shown by the much enhanced value of 66% and 85% for solutions in 2-chloroethanol and trifluorethanol respectively. Again the effect was much less marked for the lysine rich fractions and it concluded that these fractions show a much reduced tendency to form helical conformations in solution. This is supported by infrared studies of films of the histone fractions cast from the helix promoting solvents which show the absence of extended β-material for all fractions except the lysine rich fractions. For the latter a high proportion of β-material was present in all samples. ::: ::: High resolution nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic studies also indicate an increase in rigid conformations in salt solutions for all histone fractions except the lysine-rich fraction. Resonances at approximately 9 r, due to hydrocarbon sidechain terminal methyl groups in leucines and the smaller number of valine and isoleucines, and at 8.7r due to methylene hydrogens of leucine and the methyl hydrogens of alanine are greatly reduced in area on increasing salt molarity of aqueous solution. Since this effect is accompanied by an increase in helix content to about 25–30% it is suggested that the apolar residues such as alanine, leucine, isoleucine and valine are involved in helical regions, and furthermore since the increase in helix content with salt molarity is presumably due to a reduction in the electrostatic repulsion energy of like charged groups there must be regions of the polypeptides chains involving a high proportion of the apolar groups mentioned above and charged groups. ::: ::: Spectroscopic and deuteration studies of partial nucleohistones were also made. Deuteration of nucleohistone has revealed a slowly exchanging fraction of the labile protons which have been ascribed to imide protons in the polypeptide backbone shielded by being in some stable regular structure. The intensity of the N-H stretching band at 3300 cm-1 has been taken as a measure of the amount of the slowly exchanging amide protons and this has been determined for several series of partial nucleoproteins. It is found that the intensity of this band does not diminish until 20–25% of the histone has been removed from the complex. From this it is evident that in the first 20–25% of the histone to be removed, which form the lysine rich fraction, none of the labile protons are shielded in any way. Hence this fraction is non-helical and possibly takes up an extended form to facilitate cross linking in the nucleohistone complex. ::: ::: From polarized infrared studies of orientated films of partial nucleohistone it is found that the residual N-H stretching band of the slowly deuterating protein component is almost non-dichroic and exhibits only a very low parallel dichroism. This indicates that if the helical components of the histone are ordered relative to the axis of the DNA molecule then they must lie at an angle of about 54° to this axis and probably lie in one of the grooves of the DNA molecule. It is found, also, with the most tightly bound histones that the rapidly deuterating protein component also gives rise to dichoric bands. The dichroism of the amide ‘I’ band is parallel and would indicate that there is an extended portion of polypeptide chain which runs more parallel to the DNA axis than the helical component. These studies demonstrate that there is a definite spatial relationship between DNA and the most tightly bound histones.
Carbon-13 nmr chemical shifts have been used to determine the basicity constants for nine alcohols. The method involves comparing the chemical shifts for carbon atoms adjacent to the site of protonation with those for carbon atoms in a more remote position. The differences in the chemical shifts (Δ values) at different acidities are then used to calculate basicity constants for the alcohols. The pKBH+ values, determined by use of the "X function" are as follows: ethanol −2.12, 1-propanol −2.12, 3-chloro-1-propanol −2.24, 2-chloroethanol −2.45, 2-bromoethanol −2.41, 2-nitroethanol −2.09, 2-methoxyethanol −1.93, 2-phenoxyethanol −1.87, and 2-propanol −2.06. The typical slope parameter, m*, is 0.17. Two linear free energy correlations are obtained: when the alcohols are considered to be a series of monosubstituted ethanols, the Hammett plot has a slope of 0.65; when they are considered to be a series of mono- and disubstituted methanols, the slope is 1.7. Alcohols bearing oxygen-containing substituents are m...
The reactions between a variety of functionalized alcohols and tris(dimethylsilyl)methane, (HMe2Si)3CH, are described. Alcohols such as ethylene glycol monobutyl ether, ethylene glycol monoethyl ether, triethylene glycol monomethyl ether, 2-chloroethanol, 1-octanol, benzyl alcohol, glycidol, and allyl alcohol were converted in the presence of Karstedt's catalyst into the corresponding tris(alkoxydimethylsilyl)methanes, (ROMe2Si)3CH, in a convenient one-pot operation under aerobic conditions. The appearance of the products coincides with the generation of colloidal Pt(0) species. Moreover, poly(4-chloromethyl)styrene containing tris(dimethylsilyl)methyl groups reacts with benzyl alcohol or 2-chloroethanol in the presence of Karstedt's catalyst to give new macromolecules bearing tris(alkoxydimethylsilyl)methyl groups. The reaction rate is greatly influenced by the concentration of catalyst.
The preferential interaction of sodium poly(α-L-glutamate) and poly(α-L-glutamic acid) with the solvent components in water/2-chloroethanol mixtures has been determined using density-increment measurements. The degree of preferential interaction was deduced from the density increments at constant molality of 2-chloroethanol and at constant chemical potential of 2-chloroethanol. Sodium poly(α-L-glutamate) and poly(α-L-glutamic acid) are both preferentially hydrated in the whole range of solvent composition. A dehydration process occurs during the 2-chloroethanol-induced coil-to-helix transition of sodium poly(α-L-glutamate). This dehydration process was attributed to the release of some moles of water from the neighborhood of the peptide bond during the nucleation of the helix. After the conformational transition, sodium poly(α-L-glutamate) is solvated by one 2-chloroethanol molecule. The location of water and 2-chloroethanol molecules in the different parts of the residue (more polar and less polar portions) is also discussed.
Abstract 8 halogenated aliphatic hydrocarbons were assayed for their ability to induce somatic segregation in the mould Aspergillus nidulans . Induction of haploidization, mitotic non-disjunction and mitotic crossing-over was studied in heterozygous colonies exposed to the tested chemicals through the detection and phenotypic analysis of segregated sectors. The results obtained show that 1,2-dibromoethane induced all kinds of segregated sectors; 1,2-dichloroethane, allyl chloride, 2-chloroethanol, 2,2-dichloroethanol and 2,2-dichloroacetaldehyde significantly increased the frequency of haploid sectors and diploid non-disjunctional sectors; chloroform and 1,2-dichloropropane were ineffective.
Alkylation of 5-aminotetrazole (1) with 2-chloroethanol leads to a mixture of the N-1 and N-2 isomers of (2-hydroxyethyl)-5-aminotetrazole. Treatment of 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-5-aminotetrazole (2) with SOCl(2) yielded 1-(2-chlorethyl)-5-aminotetrazole (3). 1-(2-Azidoethyl)-5-aminotetrazole (4) was generated by the reaction of 3 with sodium azide. Nitration of 2, 3, and 4 with HNO(3) (100%) yielded in the case of 2 and 3 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazole (5) and 1-(2-chloroethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazole (6). In the case of 4, 1-(2-nitratoethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazole monohydrate (7) was obtained. 1-(2-Azidoethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazole (8) could be obtained by nitration of 4 with NO(2)BF(4) via the formation of potassium 1-(2-azidoethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazolate (9). The reaction of 6 with NaN(3) resulted in the formation of the salt sodium 1-(2-chloroethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazolate (10 a). The deprotonation reaction of 6 was further investigated by the formation of the ammonium salt (10 b). The protonation of 2 and 4 with dilute nitric acid led to 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-5-aminotetrazolium nitrate (11) and 1-(2-azidoethyl)-5-aminotetrazolium nitrate (12), respectively. Similarly, protonation of 4 with perchloric acid led to 1-(2-azidoethyl)-5-aminotetrazolium perchlorate monohydrate (13). Since 5-nitrimino-tetrazoles can be used as bidentate ligands, the coordination abilities of 5, 6, and 8 were tested by the reaction with copper nitrate trihydrate, yielding the copper complexes trans-[diaquabis{1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazolato-kappa(2)N(4),O(5)}copper(II)] (14), trans-[diaquabis{1-(2-chloroethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazolato-kappa(2)N(4),O(5)}copper(II)] dihydrate (15), and [diaquabis{1-(2-azidoethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazolato-kappa(2)N(4),O(5)}copper(II)] (16). All compounds were characterized by low-temperature single-crystal X-ray diffraction. In addition, comprehensive characterization (IR, Raman, and multinuclear NMR spectroscopy ((1)H, (13)C), elemental analysis, mass spectrometry, DSC) was performed. The heats of formation of selected compounds were computed by using heats of combustion obtained by bomb calorimetry or calculated by the atomization method. With these values and the densities determined from X-ray crystallography, several detonation parameter were calculated by the EXPLO5 program. Finally, the sensitivities towards impact and friction were determined using a BAM drop hammer and friction tester.
2-Pentafluorophenyl-2-trifluoromethyl-1,3-dioxolane was prepared by cyclization of octafluoroacetophenone with 2-chloroethanol under the conditions of base catalysis. Successive chlorination of the product yielded the corresponding 4,4,5,5-tetrachloro derivative. Fluorination of the latter in the SbF3/SbCl5 system yields 4,5-dichloro-4,5-difluoro-2-pentafluorophenyl-2-trifluoromethyl-1,3-dioxolane.
Preferential adsorption to poly[N5-(3-hydroxypropyl)-L-glutamine] (PHPG) in water/2-chloroethanol solvent mixtures has been determined by measuring density increments at constant concentration and at constant chemical potential. At low alcohol concentrations, decreasing preferential adsorption of 2-chloroethanol is observed. When the organic solvent content is increased, an inversion of preferential adsorption occurs, water being preferentially adsorbed. The inversion zone parallels the conformational transition curve. As an explanation it is proposed that a competition occurs between noninteracting helicogenic 2-chloroethanol, which stabilizes hydrophobic interactions, and the hydrophilic interactions of water with PHPG. The former retains a helical structure, whereas the latter induces a helix-to-coil transition.
The relative intensities of the C—X stretching bands of the gauche and trans isomers in the vapor were measured as a function of temperature up to 165 °C for 2-chloroethanol, and up to 130 °C for 2-bromoethanol. From these the enthalpy differences between the two isomers were found to be 1.20 and 1.45 ± 0.1 kcal mole−1 respectively for the two halogenated ethanols. Similar measurements on the O—H stretching bands gave values higher than the above by 0.45 kcal mole−1 for both compounds. This apparent discrepancy is interpreted as due to a second gauche isomer, the OH group of which is not engaged in intramolecular hydrogen bonding, and which is less stable than the trans isomer.A study of the isotopic molecule ClCH2—CH2OD has led to unambiguous assignment of the OH bending and torsional frequencies. The spectra of the solid show that 2-chloroethanol can exist in two different crystalline phases: a stable one consisting of gauche molecules only, and a metastable one containing both isomers.
This paper reports the use of the 2-chloroethanol derivative in the electron capture gas chromatographic analysis of DDA. The efficiency of conversion of DDA to the 2-chloroethanol derivative was 91.5±1.0%. The utilization of a silica gel column for clean up prior to electron capture analysis is discussed and the elution pattern for the 2-chloroethanol derivative is given with a recovery of 97.3±0.4%. The 2-chloroethanol derivative is 3.7±0.1 times more responsive to electron capture detection than the methyl ester of DDA and produces a retention time which separates the DDA from other chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides which might interfere with the analysis.
Substituted 5H-imidazo[1,2-b]-1,2,4-triazepin-4-ones react with alkyl (alkenyl) halides, 2-chloroethanol, glycerin dichlorohydrin, haloacetic acids, the methyl ester and amide of monochloroacetic acid in a methanol-sodium methylate system to form N(5)-alkylation products, and with hydroxylamino-O-sulfonic acid to form 5-aminoimidazo[1,2-b]-1,2,4-triazepin-4-one.
A number of recent reports suspected that Tween-80 in injectable medicines, including traditional Chinese medicine injections could cause life-threatening anaphylactoid reaction, but no sound conclusion was drawn. A drug-induced anaphylactoid reaction is hard to be assayed in vitro and in conventional animal models. In this study, we developed a microplate-based quantitative in vivo zebrafish assay for assessing anaphylactoid reaction and live whole zebrafish mast cell tryptase activity was quantitatively measured at a wavelength of 405 nm using N-benzoyl-dl-arginine p-nitroanilide as a substrate. We assessed 10 batches of Tween-80 solutions from various national and international suppliers and three Tween-80 impurities (ethylene glycol, 2-chloroethanol and hydrogen peroxide) in this model and found that three batches of Tween-80 (nos 2, 20080709 and 20080616) and one Tween-80 impurity, hydrogen peroxide (H2 O2 ), induced anaphylactoid reactions in zebrafish. Furthermore, we found that H2 O2 residue and peroxide value were much higher in Tween-80 samples 2, 20080709 and 20080616. These findings suggest that H2 O2 residue in combination with oxidized fatty acid residues (measured as peroxide value) or more likely the oxidized fatty acid residues in Tween-80 samples, but not Tween-80 itself, may induce anaphylactoid reaction. High-throughput zebrafish tryptase assay developed in this report could be used for assessing safety of Tween-80-containing injectable medicines and potentially for screening novel mast cell-modulating drugs.
Levels of kinetin-like activity in dormant buds and buds at various stages of release from dormancy were determined by an assay involving retardation by kinetin-like substances of chlorophyll degradation in tissue of senescing leaves of Raphanus test plants. Dormancy of buds of Betula papyrifera and Populus balsamifera cuttings was broken by exposure to 2-chloroethanol vapor or immersion in warm water. Water extracts of buds at various stages of dormancy were separated by ascending chromatography and active Rf values identified. The amount of kinetin-like activity at various stages of bud dormancy was then determined by observing effects of active Rf values of bud extracts on senescence (chlorophyll retention) of Raphanus plants. Kinetin-like activity was absent in dormant buds of both species and was present in various amounts after dormancy was broken. In Betula, such activity was found primarily at Rf values of 0.3 to 0.5, and secondarily at 1.0. In Populus, kinetin-like activity was found at Rf values...
2-Haloethanol and 2-haloethylamine (halogen = F, Cl) prefer gauche conformation. This preference is significantly increased upon protonation. Commonly used explanations are based on intramolecular hydrogen bonding and hyperconjugation. 1,2-Difluoroethane prefers gauche conformation, too, while gaseous 1-chloro-2-fluoroethane is more stable as the anti conformer. The origin of these conformational preferences has been investigated by a quantitative partitioning of the gauche/anti energy difference into contributions from electrostatic, orbital, dispersion and Pauli interactions, and structural changes accompanying the rotation. The results show that, with two exceptions, the most important contributor to the gauche preference is electrostatic attraction, which is larger in gauche forms relative to the anti ones. Next come orbital interactions, while dispersion forces provide the smallest stabilizing energy. These energy components override destabilizing Pauli interactions and energetically costly structural changes. All gauche preferences also benefit from stereoelectronic effects, except in protonated 2-chloroethanol which, instead, shows a significant Cl lone pair → O–H antibond mixing, associated with hydrogen bonding. The increase in the Pauli repulsion upon anti to gauche isomerization is more pronounced for fluorine than for chlorine derivatives. Thus, the smaller gauche effect in chloro-compounds and the anti preference in 1-chloro-2-fluoroethane have their origin in the decrease in electrostatic and orbital stabilizing interactions, a drop in the former being more pronounced.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is one of the reactive metabolites of 1,2-DCE in vivo, which might contribute to brain edema formation induced by 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) poisoning. Thus, the purpose of this study was to explore the roles of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal pathways in upregulation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in 2-CE exposed rat astrocytes. Expression of p38 MAPK (p38), extracellular signal regulated protein kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and MMP-9 at both protein and gene levels in rat astrocytes were determined using western blot and real-time RT-PCR methods. The results showed that both protein and mRNA levels of MMP-9 in 2-CE exposed astrocytes significantly increased. Meanwhile, protein levels of phosphorylated p38 (p-p38), ERK1/2 (p-ERK1/2) and JNK1/2 (p-JNK1/2) in 2-CE exposed astrocytes also significantly increased. In addition, both protein and mRNA levels of MMP-9 significantly decreased in response to reduced protein levels of p-p38, p-ERK1/2 and p-JNK1/2 achieved by supplement with their specific inhibitors, indicating that activation of MAPK signal pathways might play an important role in upregulation of MMP-9 expression at the transcriptional level in 2-CE exposed astrocytes. Furthermore, since pretreatment of n-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), a powerful antioxidant amino acid, could attenuate the elevated levels of MMP-9, p-p38, p-ERK2 and p-JNK1/2 in 2-CE exposed astrocytes, activation of MAPK signal pathways in 2-CE exposed astrocytes could be mediated partially by reactive oxygen species (ROS), which was most likely generated in the metabolism of 2-CE.
Abstract Oxidation of 2-chloroethanol by H 2 O 2 under UV irradiation has been studied. Analysis of reactants and products was performed by gas and ion chromatography. In this study we have compared the disappearance of 2-chloroethanol with the contemporaneous appearance of Cl − ions and conductivity changes of the solution. It was found that the oxidation of 2-chloroethanol yields quantitative amounts of Cl − ions. Moreover, the rate of change of the solution conductivity is comparable with the rate of formation of Cl − . Acetic, glycolic and formic acids and acetaldehyde were formed in the reaction although at low concentrations.
SummaryThe changes in the intrinsic fluorescence, primarily from tryptophan residues, of sheep erythrocyte membranes following X-irradiation (0–4000 R) were investigated. The experiments showed that there was (1) a decrease in the intensity of fluorescence with increasing dose of X-rays, (2) a small shift of fluorescence emission to longer wavelengths, (3) a decrease in the fluorescence polarization, and that (4) treatment of membranes with a perturbing solvent, 2-chloroethanol, can eliminate the effects of X-rays. The amount of tryptophan in the membranes was not altered after X-irradiation. It was also shown that sulphydryl reagents, N-ethylmaleimide and 2,2′-dithiodipyridine, induced similar fluorescence changes. From these results it was concluded that the fluorescence changes could result from a change in the environment surrounding tryptophan residues, from being relatively non-polar to being more polar, implying that conformational changes of membrane proteins are brought about by low doses of X-rays.
Salmine A I, one of the components of the protamine from salmon, has been purified and characterized. The conformational preferences of salmine A I have been examined as a function of pH, added salts, presence of helix-supporting solvents, and temperature, using circular dichroism. It has been found that this small basic protein adopts predominantly an unordered conformation in aqueous solution. Addition of counter-ions, in particular perchlorate, and 2-chloroethanol induces to various extents the onset of the right-handed α-helical conformation. The results are discussed in comparison with those previously reported on the three main components of clupeine, the protamine from herring, and with the published conformational predictions by various statistical methods
The kinetics are reported of the boron trifluoride-catalysed additions of seven alcohols to dimethylketene in diethyl ether solution at 25 °C. All the reactions involve the rapid initial formation of a 1:1 alcohol–boron trifluoride adduct (formation constant K) which transfers a proton to the ketene in the slow step of the addition. For t-butyl alcohol, ethanol, methanol, phenylmethanol, and 2-chloroethanol the K values are ≳ 1 000, 320 ± 50, 300 ± 50, 80 ± 20, and 65 ± 15 l mol–1, respectively. The more acidic an alcohol the faster is the reaction of its 1 : 1 boron trifluoride adduct with the ketene. For t-butyl alcohol the relatively slow reaction of its adduct is catalysed by a further molecule of the adduct and by fre boron trifluoride.At 25 °C the spontaneous addition of ethanol to diphenylketene in ether (like that to dimethylketene) is first order in the ketene and third order in the ethanol concentration. In this reaction diphenylketene is ca. 10-fold more reactive than the dimethyl derivative in the concentration range studied. Whereas the addition of boron trifluoride to the solution catalyses the addition of ethanol (and the other alcohols) to dimethylketene to such an extent that the spontaneous addition makes a negligible contribution to the overall rate, with diphenylketene the alcohol–boron trifluoride adduct is relatively so unreactive that added boron trifluoride strongly inhibits the spontaneous addition. The ethanol–boron trifluoride adduct is > 104-fold less reactive towards diphenylketene than towards dimethylketene. These results support our previous conclusions concerning additions of acidic species to ketenes.
A mixture of 22.4 g (0.2 mole) of 2-furoic acid (see p. 43), m.p. 128–132°, and 98 g (1.2 moles) of 2-chloroethanol was prepared in a 250-ml three-necked round-bottomed flask fitted with mercury-sealed stirrer, reflux condenser, and a glass tube which passed to the bottom of the flask.
Chloroethylene oxide and 2-chloroacetaldehyde, two possibly carcinogenic metabolities of vinyl chloride in mammals, caused a dose-dependent induction of 8-azaguanine- and ouabain-resistant mutants in Chinese hamster V79 cells in vitro. Up to one-hundred-fold higher concentrations of 2-chloroethanol or monochloroacetic acid, a urinary vinyl chloride metabolite in rats and man, were inactive.
The metabolism of 1,2-dihaloethanes (DHEs) to glutathione-containing metabolites by freshly isolated rat hepatocytes was investigated. 1,2-Dichloroethane (DCE), 1,2-dibromoethane (DBE), and 1-bromo-2-chloroethane (BCE) were metabolized to S-(2-hydroxyethyl)glutathione (HEG), S-(carboxymethyl)glutathione (CMG), and S,S'-(1,2-ethanediyl)bis(glutathione) (GEG). The formation of these glutathione-containing metabolites was concomitant with the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) and accounted for 58%, 84%, and 71% of the DCE-, BCE-, and DBE-induced loss of intracellular GSH, respectively. The covalent binding of [14C]DBE to hepatocyte protein reached 18.7 nmol/mL of cell suspension (7.8 nmol/mg of protein) within 2.0 h of incubation. Half of this covalent binding occurred within 0.5 h of incubation (4.0 nmol/mg of protein) in the presence of high levels of intracellular GSH (30% of initial GSH level at 0.5 h). Hepatocyte metabolism of 2-chloroacetic acid produced only CMG. 2-Chloroethanol metabolism gave rise to CMG and HEG in a 11.5:1.0 ratio; 2-chloroacetaldehyde produced almost equal amounts of CMG and HEG. GEG formation was increased significantly for DBE and BCE when GSH was added to the medium during treatment, suggesting that the GSH conjugates S-(2-haloethyl)glutathione are exported from the hepatocytes. These results indicate that the glutathione S-transferase-catalyzed conjugation of GSH with the DHEs is responsible for the majority of the DHE-induced GSH depletion. The S-(2-haloethyl)glutathione conjugates appear responsible for the extensive covalent binding to protein observed during [14C]DBE metabolism.
Salmine A I, one of the components of the protamine from salmon, has been purified and characterized. The conformational preferences o f salmine A I have been examined as a function o f pH, added salts, presence o f helix-supporting solvents, and temperature, using circular dichroism. It has been found that this small basic protein adopts predominantly an unordered conformation in aqueous solution. Addition of counter-ions, in particular perchlorate, and 2-chloroethanol induces to various extents the onset of the right-handed a-helical conformation. The results are discussed in comparison with those previously reported on the three main components of clupeine, the protamine from herring, and with the published conformational predictions by various statistical methods.
Ammonia hexafluorophosphate (Aldrich, 98%), 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APS, Kanto Chemical Co.), 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol (Aldrich, 98%), 2-bromoisobutyryl bromide (Alfa Aesar), 1-butylimidazole and 2-chloroethanol (Aldrich, 98%), other reagents were of analytical grades. Deionized water was used throughout. The silicon (111) wafers were purchased from Shanghai Wafer Work Corp.
With cuprous chloride as catalyst, the reaction temperature was maintained at the boiling point of the system for 70 min at a feed ratio of 2:9 (the ratio of methacrylic acid to phosphorus trichloride). Then obtained methacryloyl chloride and 2-chloroethanol reacts to achieve 2-chloroethyl methacrylate. The mixture of 2-chloroethyl methacrylate, 1-butyl imidazole and a little amount of 2,6-di-tert-butyl-4 methylphenol was stirred at 40 °C for 48 h to yield a very viscous liquid, 2-(1-butylimidazolium 3-yl)-ethyl methacrylate chloride. Then a suspension of NH 4 PF 6 in anhydrous acetonitrile was added and a white precipitate appeared. After the mixture was stirred for 48 h at room temperature, the sodium chloride precipitate was removed by filtration, and the filtrate was concentrated. The concentrated filtrate was diluted with methylene chloride (250 mL) and filtered through a silica gel column. By reduced pressure distillation methylene chloride was removed and the ionic liquid monomer 2-(1-butylimidazolium 3-yl)-ethyl methacrylate hexafluorophosphate was obtained as a viscous oil. 
Abstract : Several laboratories have shown that ribosomal fractions isolated from four virulent species of bacteria protect animals against challenge with the homologous live virulent organism. To examine the efficacy of using these procedures to prepare protective antigens against Pasteurella pestis, ribosomes were isolated from mechanically disrupted virulent P. pestis strain Kim 10. RNA was isolated by both ethanol precipitation and phenol extraction of ribosomes. Ribosomal protein was extracted with acidified 2-chloroethanol. Both the RNA and protein preparations were free of VW and Fraction I antigens. Ribosomal antigens were injected into animals in doses ranging from 10 to 500 micrograms with Freund's complete adjuvant. In general, none of the ribosomal antigens protected satisfactorily against challenge doses of 300 LD50 of P. pestis. Less than 10% of the animals survived challenge. Sera from animals that survived challenge after immunization with ribosomal proteins contained antibodies to both the ribosomal protein and Fraction I. Animals surviving challenge after immunization with ethanol-precipitated RNA produced antibodies to both the RNA preparation and Fraction I. However, the antibodies against the RNA preparation were directed against the protein moieties and not RNA. Phenol-extracted RNA failed to elicit any antibody response but animals surviving challenge after immunization with this RNA preparation did have antibodies to Fraction I.
Prodn. of enantiomers of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol (I) comprises:(a) hydrolysing racemic ( plus or minus )- alpha -(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate (II) with a lipase prepn.;(b) sepg. the resulting S(+)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol (Ia) from the unhydrolysed R(-)- alpha -(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate (IIa), opt. after converting (Ia) to its succinate (Ib), and(c) hydrolysing (IIa) and opt. (Ib). The lipase prepn. is equine liver acetone extract powder, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase PS, Pseudomonas lipase AK or Candida antarctica lipase. Also claimed are (Ia) and (IIa) prepd. as above.
Addition of 2-chloroethyl chloroformate to [Mn(CO)5]– affords [Mn{C(O)·O·CH2·CH2Cl}(CO)5], which can also be obtained by treating [Mn(CO)6]+ with 2-chloroethanol. Reaction of this acyl complex with AgPF6 or AgBF4 results in an intramolecular cyclisation reaction to give the 2,5-dioxacyclopentylidene complex [Mn[graphic omitted]-(CO)5]+. This cationic complex reacts with halide anions (X = Cl, Br, I) in methanol to give the neutral carbene species [MnX[graphic omitted](CO)4], but in acetone or acetonitrile as solvent, a competitive ring-opening reaction becomes important. Reaction of the cyclic alcohol, trans-2-chlorocyclopentanol, with [Mn(CO)6]+ affords the acyl complex [Mn{C(O)·O[graphic omitted](H)Cl}(CO)5], which cyclises with AgBF4 to give the carbene complex [Mn[graphic omitted](CO)5]+. Treatment of the latter with halide anions affords neutral complexes without any competitive ring-opening. These neutral, halogeno-carbene(carbonyl)manganese complexes react with phosphines, phosphites, and arsines to give stereospecifically the fac-substituted isomers; there is no evidence for displacement of the carbene ligand. An unusual deuterium exchange reaction of the substituted halogeno-complexes is discussed.
2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) residues in fresh produce is officially analyzed as its methyl ester form by gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC-ECD). Because of safety concerns with diazomethane, the reagent used to form methyl esters, a less toxic and dangerous reagent, BCl3/2-chloroethanol, was considered. With this alternative reagent, the detecting product is a 2-chloroethyl ester. Compared with the methylester, the 2-chloroethylester has a longer retention time and a better signal-to-noise ratio for trace level analysis by GC-ECD. However, the reagent produces too many unwanted background peaks. If peak retention time is the only information available to identify the residue in case of litigation, the presence of too much background noise increases the ambiguity of identification. Therefore, confirmation by interpretation of the mass spectrum and determination of the compound structure is necessary to ensure the validity of the method. Ten commodities were fortified with 2,4-D at 0.1 ppm. Recoveries of 2-chloroethyl esters and methyl esters were 91 and 92%, respectively. The method is safe, simple, and robust.
Transgenic rodent models have emerged as potentially useful tools in the assessment of drug and chemical safety. The transgenic Tg.AC mouse carries an inducible v-Ha-ras oncogene that imparts the characteristic of genetically initiated skin to these animals. The induction of epidermal papillomas in the area of topically applied chemical agents, for duration of not more than 26 weeks, acts as a reporter phenotype that defines the activity of the test article. We describe here the activity of six chemicals that have been previously characterized for activity in the standard 2-year bioassay conducted by the National Toxicology Program (NTP). Homozygous female Tg.AC mice were treated with benzene (BZ), benzethonium chloride (BZTC), o-benzyl-p-chlorophenol (BCP), 2-chloroethanol (2-CE), lauric acid diethanolamine (LADA) and triethanolamine (TEA). BZ and LADA induced skin papillomas in a dose-dependent manner, while BCP induced papillomas only at the highest dose. BZTC, 2-CE, and TEA exhibited no activity. The correspondence of chemical activity in Tg.AC mice with that in the 2-year bioassay was high. A comparison of responsiveness to BZ and LADA was made between hemizygous and homozygous female Tg.AC mice. Both genotypes appear to be equally sensitive to maximum doses of active compounds. The results reported here indicate that the Tg.AC transgenic mouse model can discriminate between carcinogens and noncarcinogens and that both mutagenic and nonmutagenic chemicals can be detected. These studies provide support for the adjunctive use of the Tg.AC transgenic mouse skin tumor model in drug and chemical safety assessment and for the prediction of the carcinogenic potential of chemicals.
The existence of a monomer-dimer equilibrium with lipoamide dehydrogenase is demonstrated. The equilibrium can be shifted to the monomer side at low ionic strength and low pH by removing the phosphate ions by extensive dialysis. At low ionic strength, I : 0.01 and 0.02, the enzyme precipitates while aggregation takes place. This aggregation seems to be due to changes in the activity coefficient of the enzyme. High phosphate concentrations, NADI and high temperatures favor association. Also bringing the enzyme in a more polar environment causes dissociation. Dioxan and 2-chloroethanol are used to decrease the dielectric constant of the buffer solution. Inactivation and dissociation of the enzyme is time- dependent in these solutions. High concentrations of dioxan and 2-chloroethanol cause denaturation and precipitation of the enzyme. High phosphate concentrations stimulate the denaturation and precipitation of the enzyme in dioxan and 2-chloroethanol.Dissociation of the enzyme is accompanied by loss in activity and decrease in apparent α-helix content. ORD and CD data show this decrease, however the possibility that this decrease is due to changes in shape and size of the protein molecule cannot be excluded. Fluorescence and CD experiments show that upon dissociation an amino acid, a tryptophan residue, moves to a more polar environment. Also by treating the enzyme with dioxan a tryptophan residue is pertubed.Dissociation of the enzyme can also be achieved by treating the enzyme with sodium dodecylsulfate. Hydrophobic and ionic interactions are observed. Binding to the hydrophobic sites, by sodium dodecylsulfate or Tween 80, has no influence on the lipoate activity and on absorption spectrum of the enzyme in the visible- region. Binding to the ionic sites causes loss in lipoate activity and affects the absorption spectrum. From the dependency on the pH and the ionic strength it is concluded that a group of the kind BH + = B + H + with a pK value around 6.6 is involved. At high SDS concentrations the binding of FAD to the enzyme is weakened and upon standing for long times the flavin dissociated off.Dimerization of the enzyme is favored by NAD + . Binding of NAD + to the enzyme yields a difference spectrum. From these spectral titration curves two pairs of NAD + -binding sites are calculated, the binding site with the highest affinity, K diss = 35 μM is assigned to the regulatory site while the binding site with K diss = 90-110 μM is assigned to the catalytic site. Upon NAD + binding to the regulatory site one proton per FAD is liberated. Comparision of the pH activity curves with computer models shows that the activating effect of NAD + in the lipoate activity can be explained by a shift in pK value of a group from pH 6.4-6.3 to 5.0-4.9 upon NAD + binding. Together with observations in the literature these results suggest that the pK value of a SH-group is shifted to lower pH upon NAD + binding. This SH-group is suggested to be functional in the S - state in the active center.
Abstract Ion/molecule reactions of electron-impact-induced fragment ions of Co(CO) 3 NO with 2-chloroethanol, 3-chloro-2-butanone and allyl-X (X = -NH 2 , -Cl, -Br, -OH, -OC 3 H 5 ) are reported. The results indicate that the allyl compounds react similarly with Co + as do their saturated analogs, but as the number of ligand on the Co + ion increases new reactions are observed which are explained by ligand interactions. The use of metal-containing ions as chemical-ionization reagents for bifunctional organic compounds has also been investigated. The results indicate that the interpretation may be simple if each functional group reacts individually, such as in chlorobutanone, or may not be as simple if the two groups behave as one “new group”, as in 2-chloroethanol.
The rate of degradation of the chemical warfare agent sulfur mustard, bis(2-chloroethyl) sulfide, was measured on ambient and moist concrete using (13)C Solid State Magic Angle Spinning Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (SSMAS NMR). Three samples of concrete made by the same formulation, but differing in age and alkalinity were used. The sulfur mustard eventually degraded to thiodiglycol and 1,4-oxathiane via the intermediate sulfonium ions CH-TG, H-TG, H-2TG and O(CH(2)CH(2))(2)S(+)CH(2)CH(2)OH on all of the concrete samples, and in addition formed 8-31% vinyl moieties on the newer, more alkaline concrete samples. This is the first observation of the formation of O(CH(2)CH(2))(2)S(+)CH(2)CH(2)OH on a solid substrate. The addition of 2-chloroethanol to concrete on which mustard had fully degraded to thiodiglycol and 1,4-oxathiane resulted in the formation of O(CH(2)CH(2))(2)S(+)CH(2)CH(2)OH, thus demonstrating the reversibility of sulfur mustard degradation pathways. The sulfur mustard degradation half-lives on ambient concrete at 22 degrees C ranged from 3.5 to 54 weeks. When the substrates were moistened, the degradation half-lives at 22 degrees C ranged from 75 to 350h. The degradation of sulfur mustard occurred more quickly at elevated temperatures and with added water. The non-volatile toxic sulfonium ions persisted for months to years on concrete at 22 degrees C and weeks to months on concrete at 35 degrees C, before decomposing to the relatively non-toxic compounds thiodiglycol and 1,4-oxathiane.
Abstract 1. 1. Bluegill ( Lepomis macrochirus ) were exposed to 13 organic chemicals representing five known toxic mechanisms and their ventilatory patterns examined for differential responses related to mechanism. 2. 2. Two quantifiable characteristics of the ventilatory pattern, ventilatory frequency and cough frequency, had diagnostic utility as clinical signs to differentiate chemicals that killed through narcosis from those that killed by other toxic mechanisms. 3. 3. Bluegill were also exposed to 2-chloroethanol and 2,4-pentanedione, chemicals previously considered as narcotic poisons but tested here as unknowns. 4. 4. Ventilatory patterns induced by these chemicals and time to death in LC100 concentrations support current theories that they kill by mechanisms other than narcosis.
Measurements of the refractive index n for the binary mixtures 2-chloroethanol + 2-methoxyethanol in the 0 < or = t/degree C < or = 70 temperature range have been carried out with the purpose of checking the capability of empirical models to express physical quantity as a function of temperature and volume fraction, both separately and together, i.e., in a two independent variables expression. Furthermore, the experimental data have been used to calculate excess properties such as the excess refractive index, the excess molar refraction, and the excess Kirkwood parameter delta g over the whole composition range. The quantities obtained have been discussed and interpreted in terms of the type and nature of the specific intermolecular interactions between the components.
Thinlayer chromatography was performed on silica gel (E, Merck, Darmstadt) using the following solvent systems: (a) chloroform/2-chlorethanol 100:2 (v/v), (b) chloroform/aceticacid/methanol 100 : 20 : 3 for those amino acid PTHs which migrate too slow in system (a). All solvents were freshly distilled except 2-chloroethanol which was treated first with solid tris-(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane over night, filtered and distilled at 12 mmHg.
Pyrrolizidine alkaloids are found in numerous plant species throughout the world. Poultry losses due to feed contamination with seeds of Crotalaria species are well documented. Monocrotaline is the major toxic pyrrolizidine alkaloid of Crotalaria species. Studies in laboratory animals and chickens have shown a protective effect of 2(3)-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyanisole (BHA) from monocrotaline in both acute and chronic toxicity. 2-Chloroethanol is thought to interfere with the detoxification mechanisms of the alkaloids. Chickens were administered monocrotaline after separate groups were pretreated with BHA and 2-chloroethanol. There was an apparent deleterious effect of monocrotaline in 2-chloroethanol-pretreated chickens, similar to that in non-pretreated birds, with respect to growth rates, morbidity, mortality, and hepatic histopathology. Monocrotaline pyrrole formation was measured in chickens pretreated with BHA and 2-chloroethanol by means of the Erlich reagent reaction spectrophotometric assay. There was a significant difference in pyrrole production between the treatment groups. The 2-chloroethanol plus monocrotaline (40 mg/kg), BHA (500 mg/kg) plus monocrotaline, monocrotaline, BHA (100 mg/kg) plus monocrotaline (20 mg/kg), and BHA (500 mg/kg) plus 2-chloroethanol and monocrotaline groups had decreasing amounts of pyrrole metabolite formation respectively.
0 Chloroacetaldehyde, a probable metabolite of 2-chlorc- ethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), was studied in a number of itz oiuo animal systems, in in oitro hemolysis tests, and in tissue cultures to obtain a toxicity profile of the compound. Acute toxicity tests were conducted in mice, rats, guinea pigs, and rabbits by one or more routes of administration. Tissue culture tests utilized both the agar- overlay and protein assay methods. Irritant activity was evaluated by intramuscular implantation, intradermal injection, and dermal and ophthalmic applications in the rabbit. Acute cardiovascular effects in rabbits were also determined. Sleeping-time tests in mice were con- ducted t o assess the effect of chloroaeetaldehyde pretreatment (in- halation and intraperitoneal) upon drug-metabolizing enzymes. The compound was tested in guinea pigs for its sensitizing potential. Cumulative (30 daily injections) and subacute (three injections per week for 12 weeks) toxicity studies were conducted to evaluate subtle toxic effects (e.g., weight gain, hematology, and histopathology) as well as lethality. Chloroacetaldehyde is a very toxic and irritating compound in acute tests; in tests of longer duration, most of the parameters measured appeared to be normal in animals that sur- vived its lethal activity. The acute toxic effects of chloroacetaldehyde are compared with those of 2-chloroethanol. The former is inher- ently more toxic and irritating, while the latter exhibits greater ease of quantitative penetration through the GI tract and the intact skin. Key phrases 0 Chloroacetaldehyde-toxicity, compared to ethylene chlorohydrin IJToxicity-chloroacetaIdehyde,compared to ethylene chlorohydrin Chloroacetaldehyde (CICH2CHO) is a liquid at room temperature. As the anhydrous material, it polymerizes on standing ( I ) and, in aqueous solutions in excess of 50z, forms a half-hydrate which precipitates as white crystals (2). It is intensely irritating to human eyes, skin, mucous membranes, and the respiratory tract ( I ) , and its highly toxic nature is suggested by its “threshold limit value” (TLV) of 1 p.p.m., which should not be allowed to fluctuate above this amount even for short periods of time (3). The uses of chloroacetaldehyde as well as its physical and chemical properties were pre- sented previously (1, 2). Ethylene oxide sterilization of plastics, spices, and foods, in the presence of chlorides, produces 2-chloro- ethanol as a reaction product. Johnson (4), in studies conducted on rats, indicated that 2-chloroethanol was Vol. 61, No. I , Jatiuary 1972 IJ 19
The position Ho of the ESR central absorption maximum of a spin-labeled phospholipid dispersion was recorded in the manner of a g-factor; γ=hν/βHo. The point Ho corresponds to the center line zero crossing point of the first derivative ESR spectrum. A 5-doxyl derivative of stearic acid was incorporated into dispersions of dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline and dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine formed either by shaking a lipid film in the presence of buffered saline or by dialysis of label and lipid in 2-chloroethanol against buffered saline. It was found that during the gel to liquid crystal phase transition, the decrease in the order parameter, S, ranged from about .045 to .06 and the increase in the parameter γ ranged from about .0001 to .0002 depending upon the lipid and preparation method. In all cases examined, the changes could be associated with the lipid phase transition. A simple model based on rapid anisotropic motion indicates that about a 38% decrease in line width accounts for the observed shift in γ.
2-Chloroethanol decomposes at 430-496o into acetaldehyde and hydrogen chloride with first-order rate given by: k1 = 1012.8±1 exp(-229700 ± 4000/8.314T) s-l The rate is slightly less than that for ethyl chloride. That acetaldehyde is the product shows that a 1-2 shift of hydrogen has taken place and this is indicative of a polar transition state.The acetaldehyde subsequently decomposes to methane and this decomposition is catalysed by the hydrogen chloride produced.
The histopathology of the skin, liver, and kidney was studied in guinea pigs after epicutaneous administration of the industrial solvents n-hexane, toluene, carbon tetrachloride, 2-chloroethanol, and n-butyl acetate. Exposure to hexane, toluene, carbon tetrachloride, and 2-chloroethanol caused progressing nuclear pyknosis and junctional separation between the basement membrane and the basal cells. Toluene and carbon tetrachloride did also induce spongiosis appearing before the junctional separation. n-Butyl acetate did not induce any skin lesion. The liver morphology was characterized by hydropic and necrotic changes for carbon tetrachloride and 2-chloroethanol but no changes were observed for the other solvents. The kidney morphology was normal for all exposed animals.
We separated tertiary egg membrane (TGM) from 2- and 25-day-old eggs of cuttlefish Sepiella maindroni de Rochebrune, and revealed its ultrastructure, physical (solubility, barrier property) and biochemical (histology, histochemistry, nutritional components, bacteriostasis) characteristics. The results show that TGM could not be dissolved with natural seawater, alcohol, ether or hydrochloric acid (HCl), but it could be dissolved with 2-chloroethanol, diethylamine, and sodium hydroxide (NaOH). The black TGM was more effective in blocking off mud particulates, microorganisms (Chlorella vulgaris, Vibrio alginolyticus) and lighter than the white TGM. The elasticity of black and white TGMs was 1.8 N and 1.5 N, respectively. There were some ink particulates and rod-shaped bacteria in the black TGM. The nutritional components were different between black and white TGMs: Lipid content was lower and protein content was higher in the black TGM. TGM could also inhibit the growth of Vibrio alginolyticus.
Various methods were compared for isolating glutelin from the glutelin-starch residue remaining after extraction of salt-soluble and alcohol-soluble proteins from corn endosperm. Glutelin was prepared best by removing starch from the residue either by extraction with 90% dimethyl sulphoxide or by digestion with α-amylase. Either procedure yielded glutelin as a residue which was insoluble in even the most potent protein solvents and only became soluble upon disulphide cleavage. Its insolubility and its high cystine content indicate that glutelin is present in corn endosperm in the form of a 3-dimensional disulphide cross-linked network. Electrophoresis of the peptide subunits of disulphide-cleaved glutelin shows a range of mobilities between that of zein and the salt-soluble proteins of corn endosperm. NaOH (0.1M) extracted almost all the glutelin from the glutelin-starch residue but degraded the protein, as shown by its diffuse electrophoretic pattern and by loss of cystine and lysine. Aqueous 2-chloroethanol extracted only 30% of the glutelin from the glutelin-starch residue, and gel electrophoresis and amino acid analysis showed that the protein was contaminated with zein.
Haloalcohol dehalogenases are bacterial enzymes that cleave the carbon-halogen bond in short aliphatic vicinal haloalcohols, like 1-chloro-2,3-propanediol, some of which are recalcitrant environmental pollutants. They use a conserved Ser-Tyr-Arg catalytic triad to deprotonate the haloalcohol oxygen, which attacks the halogen-bearing carbon atom, producing an epoxide and a halide ion. Here, we present the X-ray structure of the haloalcohol dehalogenase HheAAD2 from Arthrobacter sp. strain AD2 at 2.0-A resolution. Comparison with the previously reported structure of the 34% identical enantioselective haloalcohol dehalogenase HheC from Agrobacterium radiobacter AD1 shows that HheAAD2 has a similar quaternary and tertiary structure but a much more open substrate-binding pocket. Docking experiments reveal that HheAAD2 can bind both enantiomers of the haloalcohol substrate 1-p-nitrophenyl-2-chloroethanol in a productive way, which explains the low enantiopreference of HheAAD2. Other differences are found in the halide-binding site, where the side chain amino group of Asn182 is in a position to stabilize the halogen atom or halide ion in HheAAD2, in contrast to HheC, where a water molecule has taken over this role. These results broaden the insight into the structural determinants that govern reactivity and selectivity in the haloalcohol dehalogenase family.
Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) and high-resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HREELS) studies were performed in order to investigate the decomposition behavior of [beta]-halohydrins (XCH[sub 2]CH[sub 2]OH, X = F, Cl, Br, I) on Rh(111). The goal of these experiments was to synthesize and to characterize oxametallacycles ([minus]CH[sub 2]CH[sub 2]O[minus]) on the Rh(111) surface. The halohydrins did not follow the expected pathway, but a new reaction analogous to the pinacol rearrangement to acetaldehyde was discovered. 2-Iodothanol and 2-bromoethanol decomposed via this path to release methane at 267 and 252 K, respectively, with about 25% selectivity. 2-Chloroethanol decomposed via a pathway in which methane was liberated at 260 K with a selectivity of 18%, while 2-fluoroethanol decomposition did not produce methane. H[sub 2] and CO were also observed as desorbing products during the TPD experiments, while carbon was also deposited on the Rh(111) surface. Halogen atoms desorbed at high temperature in these experiments. The decomposition of ethylene glycol on Rh(111) was also studied, since it has the same molecular structure as the [beta]-halohydrins. 45 refs., 11 figs., 3 tabs.
N,N’-bis[4-[1-(2-hidroxyethoxy)]salicylidine]-phenyldiamine-nickel(II) complex has been synthesized by treating N,N’-bis-4-(hydroxysalicylidene)-phenylenediamine-nickel(II) complex with 2-chloroethanol and nickel(II) acetate tetrahydrate in ethanol solvent. The resulting complex formed was characterized using standard spectroscopic and structural techniques which includes 1H, 13C, COSY and HMQC NMR spectroscopy, FTIR spectroscopy and ESI-MS spectrometry. The 1H NMR spectrum displayed all the expected signals with right integration and multiplicity. The formation of Schiff base can be seen at 8.54 ppm for the formation of diimine and the disappearance of aldehyde peak at 9.88 ppm corresponding to the starting material confirms the full conversion. The presence of resonance peak at 3.76 ppm and 4.00 ppm corresponding to the ethyl group of the hydroxyl side chain also confirm the formation of the complex. The FTIR spectrum of the complex confirmed the expected C=N band at 1577 cm−1 and C-H for sp3 stretching...
The ester groups of copolymer beads, prepared from methyl acrylate and 1,4-bis(vinyloxy)-butane, were substituted by aminolysis with hexamethylenediamine or aminoalcohols. The resulting gel carrying amino groups was transferred into an anion exchanger by alkylation with 2-chloroethanol or into a cation exchanger by reaction with succinic anhydride. Hydrazinolysis of the starting copolymer beads resulted in gels with hydrazide groups which subsequently can be derivatized. Gels with hydroxyl groups linked to the matrix by means of spacers were obtained by reaction of the succinylated gels with 2-aminoethanol. Phosphorylation of these hydroxyl groups afforded strongly acidic cation exchangers. The yields of the derivatized products are higher and the preparations are easier than those of the known methods. The 11 gel derivatives synthesized from the starting gel are mechanically stable, resistent to hydrolysis in the pH range between 1 and 14, chemically stable at temperatures up to 130°C and obtainable with a variety of pore sizes. The derivatized, cross-linked polymer beads, applicable in aqueous systems as well as in organic solvents, should find application in chromatography, in solid-phase synthesis and as basic gels in biotechnical processes.
Sphingobium sp. strain TCM1 can degrade tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP) to inorganic phosphate and 2-chloroethanol. A phosphotriesterase (PTE), phosphodiesterase (PDE) and phosphomonoesterase (PME) are believed to be involved in the degradation of TCEP. The PTE and PME that respectively catalyze the first and third steps of TCEP degradation in TCM1 have been identified. However, no information has been reported on a PDE catalyzing the second step. In this study, we identified, purified, and characterized a PDE capable of hydrolyzing haloalkyl phosphate diesters. The final preparation of the enzyme had a specific activity of 29 µmol min−1 mg−1 with bis(p-nitrophenyl) phosphate (BpNPP) as the substrate. It also possessed low PME activity with p-nitrophenyl phosphate (pNPP) as substrate. The catalytic efficiency (k cat/K m) with BpNPP was significantly higher than that with pNPP, indicating that the enzyme prefers the organophosphorus diester to the monoester. The enzyme degraded bis(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate, bis(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate and bis(2-chloroethyl) phosphate, suggesting that it is involved in the metabolism of haloalkyl organophosphorus triesters. The primary structure of the PDE from TCM1 is distinct from those of typical PDE family members and the enzyme belongs to the polymerase and histidinol phosphatase superfamily.
After the disinfection by ethylene oxide and storage by ethylene oxide in definite conditions of 16 spices (parsley, chervil, tarragone, chive, thyme, rosemary, coriander, nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, allspices, clove, pepper), the authors observed the fast loss of residual ethylene oxide and ethyleneglycol. On the contrary, the persistence of 2-chloroethanol was followed up for 6 months. They turn their attention to the toxicity of this compound to ensure the protection of customers.
This paper reports single pulse shock tube and ab initio studies on thermal decomposition of 2-fluoro and 2-chloroethanol at T=1000–1200 K. Both molecules have HX (X = F/Cl) and H2O molecular elimination channels. The CH3CHO formed by HX elimination is chemically active and undergoes secondary decomposition resulting in the formation of CH4, C2H6, and C2H4. A detailed kinetic simulation indicates that the formation of C2H4 could not be quantitatively explained as arising exclusively from secondary CH3CHO decomposition. Contributions from primary radical processes need to be considered to explain C2H4 quantitatively. Ab initio calculations on HX and H2O elimination reactions from the haloethanols at HF, MP2, and DFT levels with various basis sets up to 6/311++G**are reported. It is pointed out that due to strong correlations between A and Eα, comparison of these two parameters between experimental and theoretical results could be misleading.
The 30S and 50S ribosomal subunits were separated on linear 5 to 20% sucrose gradients in TM/4. Sedimentation of the particles was carried out at 5 C in an SW 25.1 rotor for 9 hr at 24,000 rev/min. The optical density profile at 260 nm was determined, and the fractions in the 30S peak were pooled. In the case of the 50S peak, the fractions from the heavy side were pooled to minimize contamination by 30S particles. It was estimated that 30S particles accounted for 5 to 10% of the material under the heavy side of the 50S peak. Sucrose was removed by dialysis, the volume of the subunit solutions was reduced by flash evaporation, and the protein was extracted with 2-chloroethanol as previously described (7).
Sphingobium sp. strain TCM1 can degrade tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP) to inorganic phosphate and 2-chloroethanol. A phosphotriesterase (PTE), phosphodiesterase (PDE) and phosphomonoesterase (PME) are believed to be involved in the degradation of TCEP. The PTE and PME that respectively catalyze the first and third steps of TCEP degradation in TCM1 have been identified. However, no information has been reported on a PDE catalyzing the second step. In this study, we identified, purified, and characterized a PDE capable of hydrolyzing haloalkyl phosphate diesters. The final preparation of the enzyme had a specific activity of 29 µmol min −1 mg −1 with bis(p-nitrophenyl) phosphate (BpNPP) as the substrate. It also possessed low PME activity with p-nitrophenyl phosphate (pNPP) as substrate. The catalytic efficiency (k cat /K m ) with BpNPP was significantly higher than that with pNPP, indicating that the enzyme prefers the organophosphorus diester to the monoester. The enzyme degraded bis(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate, bis(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate and bis(2chloroethyl) phosphate, suggesting that it is involved in the metabolism of haloalkyl organophosphorus triesters. The primary structure of the PDE from TCM1 is distinct from those of typical PDE family members and the enzyme belongs to the polymerase and histidinol phosphatase superfamily.
The synthesis of N-(2-hydroxyethyl)phthalimide via Gabriel synthesis method was reported. Potassium phthalimide reacted with 2-chloroethanol under 90?℃ or 12?h in DMF solvent, and the isolation yield was about 86%. The influences of reaction temperature,time,ratio of reactants,and solvent on the yields were discussed.The manipulation of this method was simple and it was easy to work up,which had its advantage on preparation of N-(2-hydroxyethyl)phthalimide on labortory scale.
The secondary structure of bovine αs-casein and chemically modified αs-casein in various solvents was investigated by infrared absorption spectrum and optical rotatory dispersion measurements. Amino groups of αs-casein were either succinylated or acetylated, and carboxyl groups were either methylated or ethylated. Acetylated- and ethylated-αs-caseins are insoluble in water. Water-soluble samples have unordered structure in water. In organic solvents, such as 2-chloroethanol and ethylene glycol, they have about 50% α-helical fraction. On the other hand, it was found that methylated-αs-casein had two infrared absorption peaks centered at 1625 and 1643 cm−1 in D2O-CH3OD mixed solvent. This fact may be connected with the presence of β-structure. In the case of solid film of this sample, cast from solution containing CH3OH, the presence of β-structure was indicated, too. The authors attempted to explain the formation of β-structure in methylated-αs-casein in terms of the electrostatic interactions due to the d...
Laser flash photolysis combined with competition kinetics with SCN− as the reference substance has been used to determine the rate constants of OH radicals with three fluorinated and three chlorinated ethanols in water as a function of temperature. The following Arrhenius expressions have been obtained for the reactions of OH radicals with (1) 2-fluoroethanol, k1(T) = (5.7 ± 0.8) × 1011 exp((−2047 ± 1202)/T) M−1 s−1, (2) 2,2-difluoroethanol, k2(T) = (4.5 ± 0.5) × 109 exp((−855 ± 796)/T) M−1 s−1, (3) 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol, k3(T) = (2.0 ± 0.1) × 1011 exp((−2400 ± 790)/T) M−1 s−1, (4) 2-chloroethanol, k4(T) = (3.0 ± 0.2) × 1010 exp((−1067 ± 440)/T) M−1 s−1, (5) 2, 2-dichloroethanol, k5(T) = (2.1 ± 0.2) × 1010 exp((−1179 ± 517)/T) M−1 s−1, and (6) 2,2,2-trichloroethanol, k6(T) = (1.6 ± 0.1) × 1010 exp((−1237 ± 550)/T) M−1 s−1. All experiments were carried out at temperatures between 288 and 328 K and at pH = 5.5–6.5. This set of compounds has been chosen for a detailed study because of their possible environmental impact as alternatives to chlorofluorocarbon and hydrogen-containing chlorofluorocarbon compounds in the case of the fluorinated alcohols and due to the demonstrated toxicity when chlorinated alcohols are considered. The observed rate constants and derived activation energies of the reactions are correlated with the corresponding bond dissociation energy (BDE) and ionization potential (IP), where the BDEs and IPs of the chlorinated ethanols have been calculated using quantum mechanical calculations. The errors stated in this study are statistical errors for a confidence interval of 95%. © 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 40: 174–188, 2008
Abstract We have used the imidazole as a starting compound for the preparation of a new ionic liquid 1-(hydroxyethyl)-3-methylimidazolium sulfate, with a yield of 98% in the two-steps synthesis. This new ionic liquid at room temperature exhibits a greater chemical activity. For the first step, we change the previous synthetic route using 2-chloroethanol as starting material, and with 1-methylimidazole to prepare the 1-(hydroxyethyl)-3-methylimidazolium chloride [EtOHMIM + ][Cl − ]. In the second stage, we have exchanged the anion Cl − with HSO 4 − . The ionic liquid shows reasonably high conductivity and thermal stability up to 340 °C. Our samples are characterized by 1 H NMR, 13 C NMR and FT-IR. The physical characteristics of the ionic liquid, such as solvation capacity were studied using a thermo-gravimetric Analyzer (NETZSCH DSC 204 F1) in the range of 40–400 °C. The results show that the ILs may be used as polyelectrolyte for electrochemical applications.
The title compounds were prepared from pyridine-4-carboxamide. Its alkylation with 2-chloroethanol or 3-chloropropanol, followed by hydrogenation gave 1-substituted piperidine-4-carboxamides IIIa and IIIb , respectively, which on treatment with thionyl chloride were converted into the respective 1-substituted halogenoalkylpiperidine-4-carbonitriles IVa and IVb . On cyclization, compounds IVa and IVb afforded 1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane-4-carbonitrile and 1-azabicyclo[3.2.2]nonane-5-carbonitrile, respectively.
The geometries of the lowest energy gauche and trans conformers of 2-fluoroethanol (2FE) and 2-chloroethanol (2CE) have been calculated at the 6-31G* level, and the energies calculated with several basis sets and the inclusion of electron correlation. The global minimum for both compounds is found to be the gauche conformer, in agreement with experiment. At the MP3/6-31G* level, trans 2CE is 1.66 kcal mol−1 higher in energy than gauche, while trans 2FE is 2.34 kcal mol−1 higher than gauche. Geometries were also optimized for various fixed values of the HOCC dihedral angle, from which the barrier to OH rotation was derived. Further calculations at the MP3/6-311+ +G** level lowered the relative energy of trans 2FE by only 0.3 kcal mol−1 to 2.03, but had a much larger effect on the HOCC rotational barrier. Calculations at the MP3/6-311++G** level were also done for ethanol, and a comparison of the ethanol and 2FE rotational profiles indicates a strongly attractive HF interaction which, after elimination of non-bonding and bending contributions, may be most simply modelled as a coulombic term. Vibrational frequencies were estimated for 2FE and 2CE at the 6-31G* level, and do not support the idea that a small HF separation is responsible for the frequency differences between trans and gauche.
The intramembranous particles of yeast Saccharomyces cereisiae plasma membrane form paracrystalline arrays or are randomly distributed as seen by freeze-fracture electron microscopy. Protoplasts with randomly distributed particles and with paracrystalline arrays were isolated and subsequently labeled with 3H-Con A, Con A and ferritin-Con A. The distribution of the Con A or the ferritin-Con A molecules on deep-etched exoplasmic surfaces strongly resembled the distribution of the intramembranous particles. The influence upon labeling of buffer ionic strength was investigated. Binding assays with 3H-Con A and freeze-etch electron microscopy demonstrated that the amount of non-specifically bound lectin molecules decreases by increasing buffer ionic strength. Only partial removal of Con A molecules was achieved by adding various concentrations of the specific sugar Methyl-alpha-D-Mannoside (alpha MM) to labeled protoplasts. By means of analytical ultracentrifugation it was found that alpha MM also promotes the formation of Con A dimers. fixed protoplasts were treated with detergents and 2-chloroethanol at various concentrations and subsequently labeled with 3H-Con A or ferritin-Con A. The amount of Con A bound to extracted cells did not decrease but ultrastructural changes of the deep-etched surfaces were observed. From our data it can be concluded that only the glycoproteins are labeled with Con A and they seem to be associated with the intramembranous particles [15]. Each intramembranous particle seems to bind 36 to 44 Con A molecules and therefore the glycoproteins seem to possess very long sugar chains. This further supports the hypothesis that the intramembranous particles are associated with the membrane-bound invertase.
Abstract 1. 1. The helix content of samples of poly-α, l -ornithine was compared with that of poly-α, l -lysine at 25° in dilute solution (up to 1.2 g/100 ml). Both water and 2-chloroethanol-water mixtures (3:1, v/v) were used as solvents. At high degrees of protonation of the side-chain amino groups, the helix content was effectively zero in all cases, as estimated by the optical rotatory dispersion parameter b o of Moffitt's equation in the range 300–600 mμ. At low degrees of protonation, in aqueous alkali, polyornithine of D P = 100 was only about 20% helical while low molecular weight polylysine of DP = 20–25 had about 40% helix content under the same conditions, a judged by the parameter b o . In alkaline 2-chloroethanol-water both poly-amino acids had a high helix content. Hydrophobic interactions between adjacent side chains on the helix due to the additional CH2 group in polylysine are considered to stabilize polylysine relative to polyornithine in aqueous medium. 2. 2. Complexes between poly-α, l -ornithine (6–10−3 monoM; DP = 100 ) and ferriprotoporphyrin IX (6·10−5–7·10−5 M) in aqueous solution at pH 11 and at 25° were identified by light-absorption spectra measured in the range 370–630 mμ. Differences from previously investigated polylysine complexes in their light absorption, rate of formation and pH-stability can be explained by the differences in initial helix content of the respective poly-amino acids.
Ethylene chlorohydrin (2-chlorethanol) and ethylene glycol can originate as by-products during ethylene oxide sterilization. We studied the effect of these subsdtances upon human HeLa cells as well as the conjunctiva and the epithelium of the external genitalia of 35 rabbits. - We found ethylene chlorohydrin to be considerably more toxic than ethylene glycol. 2-chloroethanol did not cause any reactions at our cell cultures in dilutions of 1:100 after 4 h action upon the cells and 24 h observation time. In our experimental animals this concentration had only minimal irritating effects at the external genitalia. Ethylene glycol produced cellular damages in dilutions of 1:10 after 5 d only. Our experimental animals showed no reactions to these concentrations. At the conjunctiva of rabbits dilutions of 1:100 ethylene chlorohydrin and 1:10 ethylene glycol had no effect. After application of 2-chloroethanol 1:100 to the external genitalia minimal irritations were observed. Ethylene glycol in dilutions of 1:5 caused irritations of the conjunctiva and the genitalia of our rabbits. Ethylene chlorohydrin- and ethylene glycol concentrations which had a damaging effect upon our cell cultures of our experimental animals were many times higher than those which might be expected to originate during ethylene oxide sterilization.
Abstract The main purpose of this work was to be a study, within a simulated atmosphere, of the chlorine-ethylene interactions in order to define more accurately whether they would lead to the formation of chloroethylene, a carcinogenic substance. We have also aimed at assessing the toxicity of the reaction medium under various concentrations and irradiation and humidity conditions. The presence of chloroethylene has never been detected though its following tri- and tetra-chlorinated homologues have been observed during unirradiated reactions. On the other hand, the sampling method described in this paper and the analysis method we used, i.e. gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy, have revealed the presence of many other substances, some of them being just as toxic, e.g. chloroethanal or 2-chloroethanol obtained under u.v. irradiation. The presence, as well as the formation and disappearance rate of the various reaction products thus obtained, are closely related to operational conditions. We have been able to put forward formation mechanisms for the main quoted compounds.
The density, viscosity, refractive index at (298.15, 303.15, and 308.15) K, and the speed of sound at 298.15 K in binary mixtures of anisole with 2-chloroethanol, 1,4-dioxane, tetrachloroethylene, tetrachloroethane, dimethyl formamide, dimethyl sulfoxide, and diethyl oxalate were measured over the entire mole fraction range of the binary mixtures. Using these data, the excess molar volume, deviations in viscosity, molar refraction, speed of sound, and isentropic compressibility were calculated. The computed quantities were fitted to the Redlich−Kister equation to derive the coefficients and estimate the standard error values.
The first high-resolution infrared spectra of the unstable molecule vinyl alcohol are reported. The spectra have been obtained using a new precursor, 2-chloroethanol, which when pyrolyzed at 1050 degrees C gives strong infrared spectra of vinyl alcohol free of interfering hydrocarbon absorption bands. In this work, we have analyzed the strong nu(13) fundamental at 817 cm(-1) and substantially improved the ground state rotational constants by a simultaneous fitting of previous microwave data and a large number of infrared combination differences. The 13(1) upper state was found to be perturbed by the 15(2) "dark" state at 775.7 cm(-1), and a complete analysis of the perturbed rotational structure has been achieved using an interacting two-state model. Further small perturbations at high K(a) and J have been identified as interactions with the nu(10) and nu(12) fundamentals at 948 and 960 cm(-1), respectively. Copyright 1999 Academic Press.
Conformations of a series of poly(γ-alkyl L-glutamates) (ethyl, n-propyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, and isoamyl) were studied by ORD and infrared absorption methods. All except the n-propyl ester were found to be in helical form in nonpolar non-aromatic solvents such as ethyl acetate, chloroform, ethylene dichloride, methylene chloride, carbon tetrachloride, 2-chloroethanol, dimethylformamide, and dioxane. In such cases, the Cotton effects due to the n–π* transition of peptide bonds occurred near 234 mμ and were of a magnitude similar to those found for poly(γ-benzyl L-glutamate) and poly-L-methionine in nonpolar non-aromatic organic solvents. These four polypeptides in aromatic nonpolar solvents, such as benzene, benzyl alcohol, pyridine, and m-cresol, were also found to be in helical form, although the ORD parameters differed considerably from the values in non-aromatic solvents. An essential cause seems to be the interaction of π electrons on peptide bonds with π electrons in the solvents. Helix-coil transitions of these esters in chloroform-dichloroacetic acid mixtures (dichloroacetic acid seems to be a random coil-forming solvent) were expressed by the Shechter-Blout formulation. This was not true, however, for helix–coil transitions in benzyl alcohol–dichloroacetic acid mixtures. The dependence of the helical stability of these polypeptides in chloroform solution upon the side-chain length and upon temperature is discussed.
The chemical decomposition of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosocarbamoyl (Q(NO] prolinamide and valinamide were studied under physiological conditions. The volatile products were identified with GC. Q(NO)-Pro-NH2 gave twice the amount of ethylene glycol and only one-fifth of the 2-chloroethanol produced by Q(NO)-Val-NH2 or BCNU, pointing to different pathways of their decomposition. The carbamoylating activity was also investigated in the presence of cyclohexylamine, and it was found to lead mainly to intramolecular carbamoylation with the formation of hydantoin derivatives.
The degradation of 2-chloroethanol by Pseudomonas putida US 2 was investigated in shaking flasks, air-bubble columns and packed-bed fermenters by free cells, calcium-alginate-entrapped cells and on cells on granular clay adsorbed. Entrapped cells tolerated increasing concentrations of 2-chloroethanol better than free cells. Their maximum degradative activity could be observed at 34°C and pH 7.0. The degradation of 2-chloroethanol leads to a decrease of pH and to a stagnation of mineralization, particularly with free or entrapped cells. Following the stabilization of pH, supplementation with succinate resulted in a complete degradation of higher 2-chloroethanol concentrations. Less 2-chloroethanol was degraded in air-bubble columns and larger amounts in packed-bed fermenters. 2-Chloroethanol was mineralized faster by free or entrapped P. putida US 2 than by adsorbed cells, which, on the other hand, were able to remove higher concentrations of the compound. The results with P. putida US 2 are a good indication that this microorganism could be used in waste-water treatment and soil-decontamination systems.
Rate ::: constants for the reaction of OH radicals with trans-1,2-dichloroethene and 1,1-dichloroethene have been determined at a pressure of 1.6 Torr and at T ::: = 298 ± 2 K using the discharge-flow technique. The ::: same method was used to study for the first time the kinetics of the reactions of atomic Cl with trans-1,2-dichloroethene ::: and with 1,1-dichloroethene at low pressure. The values obtained for the rate constants for the Cl-atom ::: reactions are significantly lower than those published previously, which refer to atmospheric pressure. ::: The rate coefficients are therefore likely to be strongly pressure dependent over the range 1.6–760 Torr. The ::: value obtained at low pressure may be considered as the upper limit of the rate constant for the abstraction channel. The kinetic data obtained are summarised below. ::: The ::: release of atomic chlorine following the reaction of OH radicals with trans-1,2-dichloroethene, 1,1-dichloroethene ::: and vinyl chloride has been observed by a direct method for the first time. The reaction of ::: trans-1,2-dichloroethene with OH radicals gives a yield of Cl atoms that is essentially unity. The yield is ::: independent of the presence of molecular oxygen, suggesting that Cl is released promptly after the addition of ::: OH. Some release of Cl following the reaction of OH with 1,1-dichloroethene occurs in the absence of oxygen, ::: although the release is enhanced by the presence of NO2 in the system. The dominant channel leading to the ::: formation of Cl appears not to be the initial reaction with OH, but rather the decomposition of an alkoxy ::: radical that is formed in a secondary process. The presence of molecular oxygen increases the yield of Cl ::: atoms, probably as a result of increased formation of the alkoxy radical. The lower limit of the yield in the ::: absence of O2 and NO2 is estimated to be 0.03; the corresponding limit when O2 is present is 0.05. Roughly ::: 0.09 Cl atoms are released from vinyl chloride for each OH radical consumed. The release is due to the initial ::: reaction of OH radicals, and the yield appears to correspond to the branching ratio for addition of OH to the ::: more substituted end of the carbon–carbon double bond. FTIR spectroscopic studies were made of the ::: products of reaction of Cl with 2-chloroethanol in the presence of O2. This reaction provides a mimic of the ::: reaction of OH with vinyl chloride in that the same peroxy radical species, CH2(OH)CHClO2, is formed. The ::: only organic products observed are formyl chloride and chloroacetaldehyde. The formyl chloride results from ::: the abstraction of an H atom from the carbon atom bearing the Cl substituent. Formaldehyde formed in the ::: system is photolysed to produce CO, an observed product. Chloroacetaldehyde is formed following the ::: abstraction of a hydrogen from the carbon atom bearing the OH group. The oxidation of vinyl chloride by ::: OH in the atmosphere proceeds ia the formation of CH2(OH)CH2ClO2. In the absence of NOx, the peroxy ::: radical reacts with RO2 to yield the corresponding alkoxy radical. This alkoxy radical appears to decompose ::: in exactly the same way as it does when it has been formed by the reaction of CH2(OH)CH2ClO2 with NO.
Abstract Heats of mixing for two aqueous solutions of haloalcohols, 2-chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol, have been measured for the whole composition range at 298.15 K with an LKB 2107 flow calorimeter. The mixing is endothermic for these solution, except for highly water-rich region. The enthalpic virial coefficient has been evaluated from the data in dilute aqueous solution.
The degradation of 2-chloroethanol by Pseudomonas putida US2 was investigated in batch, repeated batch and continuous cultures especially in a packed-bed fermenter with sand. The degradation of 2-chloroethanol was connected with a release of protons, which led to a decrease of the pH in the medium. Higher initial concentration than 25 mM 2-chloroethanol were not degraded completely because they entailed a decrease of the pH to 5.0, which inhibited further growth and degradation. P. putida US2 showed a typical repression of catabolites and diauxic growth with succinate as cosubstrate. The addition of succinate as a second substrate caused a decrease in degradation of 2-chloroethanol. Activated sludge added to adsorbed cultures in a continuous fermentation did not lead to a decrease in metabolic activity. After 2 weeks of continuous cultivation the specialized strain could be retained.
Abstract A detailed study has been made of the effect of various solvents and detergents on preparations containing the scrapie agent, mainly membrane mixtures obtained by water washing a combined mitochondrial-microsome fraction. Reagents such as 2-chloroethanol and sodium dodecyl sulphate produce the most marked reductions in scrapie titre. These reagents are also the most potent in effecting the dissociation of complex membrane structures. Electrophoresis carried out on columns of Bio-Gel P-300 has shown that scrapie activity is associated with anodic membrane fragments. However, this activity does not appear to be associated exclusively with any one group of complex polysaccharide molecules. The overall conclusions drawn from these studies are consistent with the predictions of the membrane hypothesis of scrapie.
The disposition kinetics of ethylene oxide, ethylene glycol, and 2-chloroethanol were studied following their intravenous administration to beagle dogs. Plasma concentration of ethylene oxide was found to decline exponentially with a mean rate constant of 0.024 +/- 0.008 min-1 (mean +/- SD) and total body clearance of 20.0 +/- 5.2 ml/kg X min. Ethylene oxide was found to be metabolized mainly to ethylene glycol, which had a mean plasma half-life of 221.0 +/- 77.7 min and a total body clearance of 2.13 +/- 0.58 ml/kg X min. Between 7 and 24% of intravenously administered ethylene oxide was eliminated in the urine as ethylene glycol within 24 h. The elimination half-life and clearance values for 2-chlorethanol were 40.8 +/- 5.7 min and 10.3 +/- 1.7 ml/kg X min, respectively. The pharmacokinetic data gathered in the present investigation suggest that ethylene glycol rather than 2-chloroethanol is the major metabolite of ethylene oxide in the dog.
Cultures of the newly isolated bacterial strains AD20, AD25, and AD27, identified as strains of Ancylobacter aquaticus, were capable of growth on 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) as the sole carbon and energy source. These strains, as well as two other new DCE utilizers, were facultative methylotrophs and were also able to grow on 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetate, and 2-chloropropionate. In all strains tested, DCE was degraded by initial hydrolytic dehalogenation to 2-chloroethanol, followed by oxidation by a phenazine methosulfate-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase and an NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase. The resulting chloroacetic acid was converted to glycolate by chloroacetate dehalogenase. The alcohol dehydrogenase was induced during growth on methanol or DCE in strain AD20, but no activity was found during growth on glucose. However, in strain AD25 the enzyme was synthesized to a higher level during growth on glucose than on methanol, and it reached levels of around 2 U/mg of protein in late-exponential-phase cultures growing on glucose. The haloalkane dehalogenase was constitutively produced in all strains tested, but strain AD25 synthesized the enzyme at a level of 30 to 40% of the total cellular protein, which is much higher than that found in other DCE degraders. The nucleotide sequences of the haloalkane dehalogenase (dhlA) genes of strains AD20 and AD25 were the same as the sequence of dhlA from Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 and GJ11. Hybridization experiments showed that the dhlA genes of six different DCE utilizers were all located on an 8.3-kb EcoRI restriction fragment, indicating that the organisms may have obtained the dhlA gene by horizontal gene transmission.
which were 10% higher than that obtained by the Lowry method. One mg of membrane "protein" corresponds to about 1.5 mg dry weight, most of the nonprotein mass consisting of phosphatides and cholesterol. About 1.5% of the dry mass is carbohydrate and 1-2% is contributed by tightly bound RNA. It should be noted that cellular membranes obtained in isoosmotic media (e.g., 0.25 M sucrose) ordinarily contain considerable quantities of trapped, soluble proteins,8 but in the isolation procedure here employed, these contaminants were removed by "osmotic shock."'24 The reported optical measurements are thus due to components integral with the membrane structure. 2-Chloroethanol (Eastman White Label) was completely transparent to 260 m,u after fractional redistillation. The apparent pH of 9:1 2-chloroethanol:water was about 1.1. Lysolecithin (Sigma Chemical Co.) was used at a concentration of 0.13 mg/ml which reduced the turbidity of PM suspensions by 50%. Infrared spectra: A Perkin-Elmer spectrophotometer model 521 was employed. Solid films were prepared by applying about 0.5 mg membrane protein (in aqueous suspension, or chloroethanol or formic acid solution) as a 0.5 X 2-cm band in the center of the silver chloride plate and drying in air at about 25?C. Once dried, the films were strongly adherent to the plate. Quantitative extraction of lipids from the films was achieved by immersing the plates in 2:1 chloroform:methanol (v:v) for 20 min at room temperature. After rinsing with the same solvent, the films were dried in air. To acidify the films, the dried plates were immersed for 20 min in 0.001-0.1 N HCI at room temperature, rinsed with distilled water, and air-dried. In order to have the films located reproducibly in the optical path, all manipulations of the films were performed with the plates in their plate-holders.
Labelled 1,2-dichloroethane (3.6 μci/mg), prepared by chlorination of ethylene-14C, was injected intraperitoneally (0.05–0.17 g/kg) and the elimination of radioactivity was followed for 3 days. Depending on the dose 10–42% was expired unchanged and 12–15% as carbon dioxide. 51–73% of the dose was found in the urine, 0–0.6% in the faeces (contaminated with urine), and 0.6–1.3% remained in the animal. Examination of the urine by paper chromatography showed 3 major metabolites, chloroacetic acid, S-carboxymethylcysteine, and thiodiacetic acid. The following amounts (% of urinary activity) were estimated by isotope dilution analysis: chloroacetic acid 6–23, S-carboxymethylcysteine 44–46 (free) and 0.5–5 (conjugated), and thiodiacetic acid 33–34. These results are in good agreement with those previously obtained by the administration of chloroacetic-1-14C acid. It may therefore be suggested that the metabolism of 1,2-dichloroethane proceeds mainly via chloroacetic acid. Isotope dilution analysis also revealed small amounts of 2-chloroethanol and S,S'-ethylene-bis-cysteine but no oxalic acid. Only a minor part of the activity might be due to S-(β-hydroxyethyl)-cysteine and its mercapturic acid.
Syntheses of diols of structure [HOCH2CH2S]2(CH2)n in 86–95% yield from the sodium salt of 2-mercaptoethanol and Br(CH2)nBr (n = 1 to 5) or in 60–90% yield from 2-chloroethanol and NaS(CH2)nSNa (n = 2 to 5) are described. The diol [HOCH2CH2SCH2CH2]2O was prepared in 82% yield from the sodium salt of 2-mercaptoethanol and [ClCH2CH2]2O, and in 88% yield from 2-chloroethanol and [HSCH2CH2]2O. Mono- and bis-sulfoxides and bis-sulfones of these species were prepared in generally high yield by treatment with an equivalent of KIO4 in aqueous methanol, two equivalents of NaIO4 in aqueous methanol, or four equivalents of H2O2 in trifluoroacetic acid respectively. The compounds are important analytical standards for investigating the fate of the chemical warfare agents sesquimustard Q and oxygen mustard T in environmental samples.
The ability of a series of haloalkanes, haloethanols and haloacetaldehydes to induce mutations in Salmonella typhrimurium and preferentially to inhibit the growth of DNA polymerase-deficient E. coli (pol A(+)/pol A(-)) was investigated. For the haloalkanes investigated, the order of reactivities towards the E. coli pol A(+)/pol A(-), was: 1,1,2,2-tetrabromoethane > 1,1-dibromoethane > 1,1,2,2-tetrachlorethane > 1,2-dibromoethane = 1,5 dibromopentane > 1,2-dibromo-2-methylpropane > 1-bromo-2-chloroethane > 1,2-dichloroethane. In the standard Salmonella mutagenicity assay the order of these substances was 1,2-dibromoethane = 1,5-dibromopentane > 1,2-dibromo-2-methylpropane >/= 1-bromo-2-chloroethane > 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane = 1,1-dibromoethane > 1,2-dichloroethane. 1,1,2,2-Tetrabromoethane was negative in the standard assay but strongly mutagenic when tested in suspension. It would appear that the discrepancy between the two procedures is due to the fact that bactericidal mutagens cannot be scored reliably in the standard Salmonella assay. The order of reactivity of 2-haloethanols in E. coli pol. A(+)/pol A(-), was 2-iodo > 2-bromo-> 2-chloroethanol. In the Salmonella assay the order was 2-bromo-> 2 iodo- >2-chloro-ethanol. 2-Fluoroethanol and ethanol were devoid of activity in both assays. For the 2-haloacetaldehydes the reactivities in the E. coli system were 2-bromoethylacetate > 2-bromoacetaldehyde = acetaldehyde > 2-chloroacetaldehyde while in the Salmonella system the order was 2-bromoethylacetate > 2-chloroacetaldehyde. Acetaldehyde had minimal activity, while 2-bromoacetaldehyde was without activity but strongly bactericidal.
The properties of apomyoglobin were examined in aqueous solutions and various helix- and random-coil-forming solvents by solvent perturbation, optical rotation, circular dichroism, and viscosity measurements. The solvent perturbation data obtained in neutral aqueous solutions suggest 25–40% exposure of the two tryptophyl residues and 50–60% exposure of the three tyrosyls. The estimates of burial of these groups are in the ranges expected for myoglobin based on its X-ray structure. In the helicogenic alcohols, methanol, ethanol, 2-chloroethanol, trifluoroethanol, and 1-propyl alcohol, as well as in acidic solutions, 8 M urea and 6M guanidine hydrochloride, essentially all the tryptophyl and tyrosyl residues are found to be exposed to solvent based on this method. Analysis of the ORD and CD data indicates that in the alcohols the α-helix content of apomyoglobin has in most cases changed from 58–59% to about 80–95%. Analysis of the intrinsic viscosity data based on the equations of Simha and Kirkwood and Auer indicates that the polypeptide chain in these solvents has the dimensions of fully extended α-helical rods, with lengths of 221–251 A and mean diameters of 12.8–13.6 A. It is concluded that apomyoglobin in the various alcohols must have an extended but somewhat irregular rodlike structure, having a few bend or irregular sequences between the α-helical segments due largely to the presence of the four proline residues, 37, 88, 100, and 120 in the amino acid sequence.
Cultures of the newly isolated bacterial strains AD20, AD25, and AD27, identified as strains ofAncylobacter aquaticus, were capable of growth on 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) as the sole carbon and energy source. These strains, as well as two other new DCE utilizers, were facultative methylotrophs and were also able to grow on 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetate, and 2-chloropropionate. In all strains tested, DCE was degraded by initial hydrolytic dehalogenation to 2-chloroethanol, followed by oxidation by a phenazine methosulfate-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase and an NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase. The resulting chloroacetic acid was converted to glycolate by chloroacetate dehalogenase. The alcohol dehydrogenase was induced during growth on methanol or DCE in strain AD20, but no activity was found during growth on glucose. However, in strain AD25 the enzyme was synthesized to a higher level during growth on glucose than on methanol, and it reached levels of around 2 U/mg of protein in late-exponential-phase cultures growing on glucose. The haloalkane dehalogenase was constitutively produced in all strains tested, but strain AD25 synthesized the enzyme at a level of 30 to 40% of the total cellular protein, which is much higher than that found in other DCE degraders. The nucleotide sequences of the haloalkane dehalogenase (dhUA) genes of strains AD20 and AD25 were the same as the sequence of dhL4 from Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 and GJ11. Hybridization experiments showed that the dhlA genes of six different DCE utilizers were all located on an 8.3-kb EcoRI restriction fragment, indicating that the organisms may have obtained the dhlA gene by horizontal gene transmission.
The order of reactivity of 2-haloethanols in E. coli pol. A+/pol A-, was 2-iodo > 2-bromo-> 2-chloroethanol. In the Salmonella assay the order was 2-bromo-> 2 iodo->2-chloro-ethanol. 2-Fluoroethanol and ethanol were devoid of activity in both assays.
The density, viscosity, and refractive index at (298.15, 303.15, and 308.15) K and the speed of sound at 298.15 K in binary mixtures of 1,4-dioxane with 1,2-dichlorobenzene, ethyl acetate, trichloroethylene, 2-chloroethanol, dimethyl acetamide, diethylmalonate, and 1-butanol were measured over the entire mole fraction range of the binary mixtures. Using these data, the excess molar volume, deviations in viscosity, molar refraction, speed of sound, and isentropic compressibility were calculated. The computed quantities were fitted to the Redlich−Kister equation to derive the coefficients and estimate the standard error values.
The present invention discloses a new method for cellulose in NaOH / urea solution prepared homogeneously hydroxyethylated hydroxyethylcellulose. The method cellulose is completely dissolved in 6wt% sodium hydroxide / 4wt% aqueous solution of urea, water-soluble and successfully prepared for homogeneous reaction hydroxyethyl cellulose with 2-chloroethanol with in an aqueous solution of the hydroxyethyl cellulose. No significant degradation of cellulose occurs in the course of the reaction. This is a new process for the preparation of hydroxyethyl cellulose, its low cost, non-polluting, high product purity and good uniformity.
Abstract The conformational energy differences have been measured for 2,2-dichloroethanol in the neat liquid and in DMSO and H2O via Raman spectroscopy. In contrast to earlier results on 2-chloroethanol, Δ H was not markedly effected by dilution in these hydrogen bonding solvents. Spectra in the OH valence region were utilized to determine the energy difference between intra- and intermolecularly hydrogen bonded species. The result indicated stronger intramolecular hydrogen bond formation in dichloroethanol than in the monohalogenated alcohol.
Optical rotatory dispersion and circular dichroism studies on native and demetallized concanavalin A indicate that this protein consists essentially of a mixture of β-form and random coil. The induction of α-helix in the native protein is accomplished through the use of 2-chloroethanol. The sequential addition of transition metal, Ca2+ and α-methyl-D-glucopyranoside to solutions of demetallized protein results in small but reproducible alterations in the aromatic CD spectrum, the largest changes being noted with calcium addition. Aromatic CD difference spectral studies suggest that a single transition may be involved in the binding of metal and α-MG to the protein; the wavelength position of this transition implicates tyrosine residues. At the same time, no significant variations occur in the secondary structure of the protein as reflected by the constancy of the far ultraviolet CD spectrum with ligand complexation. Exploration of the CD aromatic fine structure as a function of pH indicates that both tyrosine and tryptophan chromophores are involved.
Comparative binding energy (COMBINE) analysis was conducted for 18 substrates of the haloalkane dehalogenase from Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 (DhlA): 1-chlorobutane, 1-chlorohexane, dichloromethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloropropane, 2-chloroethanol, epichlorohydrine, 2-chloroacetonitrile, 2-chloroacetamide, and their brominated analogues. The purpose of the COMBINE analysis was to identify the amino acid residues determining the substrate specificity of the haloalkane dehalogenase. This knowledge is essential for the tailoring of this enzyme for biotechnological applications. Complexes of the enzyme with these substrates were modeled and then refined by molecular mechanics energy minimization. The intermolecular enzyme-substrate energy was decomposed into residue-wise van der Waals and electrostatic contributions and complemented by surface area dependent and electrostatic desolvation terms. Partial least-squares projection to latent structures analysis was then used to establish relationships between the energy contributions and the experimental apparent dissociation constants. A model containing van der Waals and electrostatic intermolecular interaction energy contributions calculated using the AMBER force field explained 91% (73% cross-validated) of the quantitative variance in the apparent dissociation constants. A model based on van der Waals intermolecular contributions from AMBER and electrostatic interactions derived from the Poisson-Boltzmann equation explained 93% (74% cross-validated) of the quantitative variance. COMBINE models predicted correctly the change in apparent dissociation constants upon single-point mutation of DhlA for six enzyme-substrate complexes. The amino acid residues contributing most significantly to the substrate specificity of DhlA were identified; they include Asp124, Trp125, Phe164, Phe172, Trp175, Phe222, Pro223, and Leu263. These residues are suitable targets for modification by site-directed mutagenesis.
Abstract 1. 1. Red cell membranes of sheep contain a phospholipase A 2 (phosphatide 2-acyl-hydrolase, EC 3.1.1.4), which degrades exogenous phosphatidylcholine. 2. 2. The enzyme requires Ca 2+ and is greatly stimulated by detergents such as Triton X-100 or deoxycholate. Its pH optimum is 8.0. Phosphatidylcholine hydrolysis is not affected by albumin or high ionic strength. 3. 3. The enzyme has a broad temperature optimum between 30 and 45 °C and is relatively heat stable. 4. 4. The phospholipase A activity is destroyed by 2-chloroethanol, but partially regained upon dialysis against an aqueous buffer. 5. 5. The enzyme is completely inhibited in the presence of dodecylsulfate. After removal of the denaturant the enzymatic activity is restored.
Abstract Ab initio STO-3G optimizations have been carried out on the five conformers of 2fluoro- and 2-chloro-ethanol and on ten saddle point conformations of 2-fluoroethanol. The relative order of the calculated conformer energies is found to be Gg′ ⪡ Tt −1 , respectively. Large variations (4–7°) are found for the angles CCO and OCH from conformer to conformer and a general angle rule is presented for primary alcohols. Neglect of this effect is the main source of error in rigid-rotation calculations on alcohols (as compared with fully optimized calculations), of the order of 5 kJ mol −1 . The use of calculated OH stretching force constants in assigning νOH band fine structure in IR spectra is discussed. Evidence for a weak intramolecular hydrogen-bonding interaction is found, especially in the case of 2-chloroethanol. On the basis of calculated conformer energies, barriers to rotation and force constants it is deduced that for both of these alcohols the photorotamerization process in matrices is either Gg′ → Tt or Gg′ → Gt.
Reaction of ethylene oxide with 1-alkyl- or 1-aryl-1,4-dihydrotetrazole-5-thiones in acetic acid affords the corresponding mesoionic 1-alkyl- or 1-aryl-3-(2-hydroxyethyl)-tetrazolium-5-olates 4–6. The X-ray structure of one of these compounds (5) is presented. On the other hand, the reaction of tetrazolinones with 2-chloroethanol in the presence of potassium hydroxide affords a mixture of the corresponding 1,3- and 1,4-disubstituted isomers. The isomers can be distinguished easily by their IR, 1H or 13C NMR spectra. The fragmentation of these compounds in the mass spectrometer is discussed.
Abstract The far infrared spectrum (350-50 cm −1 ) of gaseous 2-chloroethanol, ClCH 2 CH 2 OH, was recorded at a resolution of 0.10 cm −1 . The OH torsional fundamental of the most stable gauche conformer, Gg', where the capital G refers to internal rotation around the CC bond and the lower case g to internal rotation around the CO bond, was observed at 344.0 cm −1 with ‘hot bands’ falling to lower frequency. The ‘hot bands’ are believed to be caused by the OH torsion in excited states of the CC torsion which is observed at 147 cm −1 . The corresponding torsional modes were observed for two of the high energy trans conformers, Tg (281.4 cm −1 ) and Tt (∼200 cm −1 ). A number of transitions observed in the spectra of the vapor between 250 and 300 cm −1 are assigned to the ClCC bend of the Gg' (299 cm −1 ), Tt (266 cm −1 ), and Tg (250 cm −1 ) conformers with some having associated ‘hot bands’. Additionally infrared spectra of the vapor, amorphous and crystalline solids were recorded, and Raman spectra of the liquid, including depolarization ratios, and of the amorphous and crystalline solids were obtained. The structural parameters, conformational stabilities, barriers to internal rotation and fundamental frequencies were obtained from ab initio calculations utilizing the RHF/6-31++G∗∗ and the MP2/6-31G∗∗ basis sets and the data are compared with the experimental results.
Alcohol oxidase (AO) from the methylotropic yeast Pichia pastoris was isolated and investigated. Wide substrate specificity is characteristic for this enzyme. Unbranched primary alcohols are effectively oxidized by AO to aldehydes, including propargyl alcohol, 2-chloroethanol, 2-cyanoethanol, leading to important synthetic intermediates. AO was immobilized by covalent linking to macroporous cellulose activated by glutaraldehyde, yield of immobilization 80%. Presence of two izoenzymes of AO was suggested from the pH activity dependence.
The chemical shifts of water (17O- and 1H-NMR) and the spin-lattice relaxation time of water (17O-NMR) were measured on binary aqueous mixtures of halogenated ethanols, propanols, acetamide and acetone to investigate the effect of their halogen groups on water structure. The solute molecules were 2-chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol, 2-iodoethanol, 2,2-dichloroethanol, 3-chloropropan-1-ol, 2,3-dichloropropan-1-ol, chloroacetamide, and chloroacetone together with ethanol, propan-1-ol, acetamide and acetone. The results give clear evidence of the fact that the hydrogen bonds of the water molecules become weaker around the halogen group irrespective of the presence of an OH group in the molecules.
The synthetic polyribonucleotides adenylic acid (poly A), uridylic acid (poly U), cytidylic acid (poly C), and inosinic acid (poly I), whether single- or double-stranded (poly A:U, poly I:C), cannot replace mycobacterial ribonucleic acid (RNA) in the production of a high immune response in CF-1 mice against tuberculous disease. These conclusions are based on the results of several types of experiments. (i) Poly A and poly U, used either singly or in combination, did not increase the immunogenicity of mycobacterial RNA preparations whether emulsified in Freund's incomplete adjuvant (FIA) or not emulsified. (ii) Mycobacterial ribosomal protein, extracted with 2-chloroethanol, was not immunogenic; the addition of poly A:U to the protein did not produce an immune response and FIA did not affect these results. (iii) The RNA left after the protein was extracted was partially immunogenic when emulsified in FIA even though it was partially degraded. (iv) Mycobacterial RNA prepared with ethyl alcohol and partially degraded with ribonuclease had a significantly lower immunogenic activity, and the original higher immune response was not restored by the addition of poly A:U. (v) Mycobacterial RNA totally degraded by weak alkali was not immunogenic, the original immunogenic activity was not restored by the addition of poly A:U or poly I:C, and FIA again did not influence the results. These findings suggest that (i) protein, polypeptides, or other antigenic fragments, if present, are not the specific immunogens; and (ii) mycobacterial RNA is responsible for the high immunogenic activity of mycobacterial ribosomal and RNA preparations. In addition, since the double-stranded forms of these synthetic polynucleotides markedly potentiate the formation of circulating antibodies, these results also reemphasize the lack of correlation between conventional antibody formation and immunity against tuberculosis.
Plants are increasingly being employed to clean up environmental pollutants such as heavy metals; however, a major limitation of phytoremediation is the inability of plants to mineralize most organic pollutants. A key component of organic pollutants is halogenated aliphatic compounds that include 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA). Although plants lack the enzymatic activity required to metabolize this compound, two bacterial enzymes, haloalkane dehalogenase (DhlA) and haloacid dehalogenase (DhlB) from the bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, have the ability to dehalogenate a range of halogenated aliphatics, including 1,2-DCA. We have engineered the dhlA and dhlB genes into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum ‘Xanthi’) plants and used 1,2-DCA as a model substrate to demonstrate the ability of the transgenic tobacco to remediate a range of halogenated, aliphatic hydrocarbons. DhlA converts 1,2-DCA to 2-chloroethanol, which is then metabolized to the phytotoxic 2-chloroacetaldehyde, then chloroacetic acid, by endogenous plant alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase activities, respectively. Chloroacetic acid is dehalogenated by DhlB to produce the glyoxylate cycle intermediate glycolate. Plants expressing only DhlA produced phytotoxic levels of chlorinated intermediates and died, while plants expressing DhlA together with DhlB thrived at levels of 1,2-DCA that were toxic to DhlA-expressing plants. This represents a significant advance in the development of a low-cost phytoremediation approach toward the clean-up of halogenated organic pollutants from contaminated soil and groundwater.
Plants are increasingly being employed to clean up environmental pollutants such as heavy metals; however, a major limitation of phytoremediation is the inability of plants to mineralize most organic pollutants. A key component of organic pollutants is halogenated aliphatic compounds that include 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA). Although plants lack the enzymatic activity required to metabolize this compound, two bacterial enzymes, haloalkane dehalogenase (DhlA) and haloacid dehalogenase (DhlB) from the bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, have the ability to dehalogenate a range of halogenated aliphatics, including 1,2-DCA. We have engineered the dhlA and dhlB genes into tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum 'Xanthi') plants and used 1,2-DCA as a model substrate to demonstrate the ability of the transgenic tobacco to remediate a range of halogenated, aliphatic hydrocarbons. DhlA converts 1,2-DCA to 2-chloroethanol, which is then metabolized to the phytotoxic 2-chloroacetaldehyde, then chloroacetic acid, by endogenous plant alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase activities, respectively. Chloroacetic acid is dehalogenated by DhlB to produce the glyoxylate cycle intermediate glycolate. Plants expressing only DhlA produced phytotoxic levels of chlorinated intermediates and died, while plants expressing DhlA together with DhlB thrived at levels of 1,2-DCA that were toxic to DhlA-expressing plants. This represents a significant advance in the development of a low-cost phytoremediation approach toward the clean-up of halogenated organic pollutants from contaminated soil and groundwater.
SUMMARY: An inducible methanol dehydrogenase showing high activity with 2-chloroethanol was purified from 2-chloroethanol-grown cells of the 1, 2-dichloroethane utilizing bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10. The enzyme consisted of a 60 kDa polypeptide that was associated with a 10 kDa polypeptide and contained pyrrolo-quinoline quinone (PQQ) as a prosthetic group. Chloroethanol-grown cells of strain GJ10 also contained an inducible NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase. Its involvement in the metabolism of 2-chloroethanol was inferred from its absence in a 2-chloroethanol non-utilizing mutant. Three different isolates of X. autotrophicus that do not utilize 2-chloroethanol for growth produced chloroethanol dehydrogenase and chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activities at similar levels as strain GJ10. It is concluded that both dehydrogenases are involved in the metabolism of natural compounds and due to their broad substrate specificity fortuitously also play a role in the metabolism of the xenobiotic compounds 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol.
Chloroacetaldehyde, a probable metabolite of 2-chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), was studied in a number of in vivo animal systems, in in vitro hemolysis tests, and in tissue cultures to obtain a toxicity profile of the compound. Acute toxicity tests were conducted in mice, rats, guinea pigs, and rabbits by one or more routes of administration. Tissue culture tests utilized both the agar-overlay and protein assay methods. Irritant activity was evaluated by intramuscular implantation, intradermal injection, and dermal and ophthalmic applications in the rabbit. Acute cardiovascular effects in rabbits were also determined. Sleeping-time tests in mice were conducted to assess the effect of chloroacetaldehyde pretreatment (inhalation and intraperitoneal) upon drug-metabolizing enzymes. The compound was tested in guinea pigs for its sensitizing potential. Cumulative (30 daily injections) and subacute (three injections per week for 12 weeks) toxicity studies were conducted to evaluate subtle toxic effects (e.g., weight gain, hematology, and histopathology) as well as lethality. Chloroacetaldehyde is a very toxic and irritating compound in acute tests; in tests of longer duration, most of the parameters measured appeared to be normal in animals that survived its lethal activity. The acute toxic effects of chloroacetaldehyde are compared with those of 2-chloroethanol. The former is inherently more toxic and irritating, while the latter exhibits greater ease of quantitative penetration through the GI tract and the intact skin.
A mixture of phenol, sodium and 2-chloroethanol forms 2-phenoxyethanol, add zinc chloride, the product is 2,3-dihydrobenzofuran, yield 50%.
Reactions at ambient temperature of the solvento cationic trifluoromethyl complex trans-[Pt(CF3)(PPh3)2(solv)][BF4] with 1.5 equiv of 1-alkynes RC⋮CH (R = Ph, p-tolyl) and 2-chloroethanol afford in high yield the β-alkoxyalkenyl complexes trans-[Pt{C(H)C(R)OCH2CH2Cl}(CO)(PPh3)2][BF4] (R = Ph (1), p-tolyl (2)). In these reactions the CF3 group is also converted to a CO ligand. Complexes 1 and 2 were characterized by spectroscopic techniques and 1 also by an X-ray diffraction analysis. Reaction of the alkynyl complex trans-[Pt(CF3)(C⋮C-p-tolyl)(PPh3)2] with 2-chloroethanol and 1 equiv of HBF4 gives the acetylide-carbonyl derivative trans-[Pt(C⋮C-p-tolyl)(CO)(PPh3)2][BF4] (3), which was also formed by reaction of trans-[Pt(CF3)(C⋮C-p-tolyl)(PPh3)2] with aqueous HBF4. Possible mechanisms of these reactions are discussed.
An inducible methanol dehydrogenase showing high activity with 2-chloroethanol was purified from 2-chloroethanol-grown cells of the 1,2-dichloroethane utilizing bacterium Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10. The enzyme consisted of a 60 kDa polypeptide that was associated with a 10 kDa polypeptide and contained pyrrolo-quinoline quinone (PQQ) as a prosthetic group. Chloroethanol-grown cells of strain G J 10 also contained an inducible NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase. Its involvement in the metabolism of 2-chloroethanol was inferred from its absence in a 2-chloroethanol non-utilizing mutant. Three different isolates of X . autotrophicus that do not utilize 2-chloroethanol for growth produced chloroethanol dehydrogenase and chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase activities at similar levels as strain GJ10. It is concluded that both dehydrogenases are involved in the metabolism of natural compounds and due to their broad substrate specificity fortuitously also play a role in the metabolism of the xenobiotic compounds 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol.
Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ 10 is a nitrogen-fixing hydrogen bacterium that is able to utilize 1,2-dichloroethane or 2-chloroethanol as a sole carbon and energy source (Janssen et al., 1984 . The organism constitutively produces two dehalogenases, one specific for 1,2-dichloroethane and related haloalkanes (Keuning et a!., 1989, and one specific for halogenated carboxylic acids. It was proposed that 1,2-dichloroethane is degraded via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetic acid to glycolate. During growth on 1,2-dichloroethane or methanol, X . autotrophicus GJ 10 produced both methanol dehydrogenase and 2-chloroethanol dehydrogenase activities. This simultaneous induction raised the supposition that the activities are related to a single protein . Conversion of 2-chloroethanol by purified methanol dehydrogenase was observed by Anthony & Zatman (1967) for the enzyme of Pseudornonas M27 and by Beardsmore-Gray et al. (1983) for the enzyme of Methylophilus methylotrophus.
In this paper, we describe the regulation and properties of a quinoprotein alcohol dehydrogenase that is also involved in the metabolism of methanol and 2-chloroethanol. Furthermore, the characteristics of a 2-chloroethanol non-utilizing mutant demonstrate the involvement of an inducible NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase in ethanol and 2-c hloroe thanol metabolism.
Five stable isomers of 2-chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol have been found by the density functional theory with the hybrid density-functional B3LYP and the second-order Moller−Plesset perturbation method using 6-31++G(d,p) and 6-311++G(2d,2p) basis sets. Intramolecular hydrogen bonding plays an important role in the most stable isomers. Assignments, especially for the low ionization potential bands, in the He*(23S) Penning ionization electron spectra and He I ultraviolet photoelectron spectra were made on the basis of the characteristics of molecular orbitals, collision energy dependence of partial Penning ionization cross sections (CEDPICS), and the related calculations. The intramolecular hydrogen bonding (C−Cl···H−O and C−Br···H−O) leads to the significant steric shielding effects, which further results in distinctly different slopes of CEDPICS for the low ionization potential bands.
Objective To establish a GC method for the determination of 2-chloroethanol residue in hydroxyethyl starch.Methods A column of DM-WAX was used with ECD as detector;nitrogen was selected as carrier gas.The injector temperature and the detector temperature were 250 ℃;the programmed column temperature was set at 90 ℃ for 12 min and then to 120 ℃ at the rate of 20 ℃·min-1 followed by holding for 2 min.Results A good linearity was obtained at the concentration of 14.30-119.2 μg·L-1 with correlation of 0.997 6.The average recovery was 98.4%(n=9),the limit of detection was 9.54×10-3 ng;the limit of quantity was 2.86×10-2 ng.Conclusions This method is simple,accurate and feasible.It is very suitable for the quality control of 2-chloroethanol in hydroxyethyl starch.
It has been a significant discovery that adducts for many carcinogens have been found in supposedly unexposed populations (3) . This is particularly apparent for low molecular weight alkyl adducts and for hydroxyl radical damage. A well-studied example of this is the adducts produced following exposure to ethylene oxide (EO). These adducts contain 2-hydroxyethyl groups attached to nucleophilic centers within DNA or protein. Such hydroxyethyl adducts may also be produced following exposure to a variety of other agents (e.g., 2-chloroethanol, 2-hydroxyethyl diazonium ion), or they could arise through degradation of other chemically unstable adducts (e.g., 2-chloroethyl adducts).
The electrochemical reductive coupling of 2-chloroethanol and 2-bromoethanol to 1,4-butanediol was attempted. The electrochemical cleavage of the carbon-halogen bond leads to intermediates which are either unstable and decompose to ethylene and OH−, or undergo chemical reactions leading to ether formation. The presence of the hydroxyl group in halohydrins seems to be responsible for the observed reaction paths. When the alcohol group was protected by esterification, coupled products were observed. Coupling of bromoethyl acetate to 1,4-butanediol diacetate thus appears technically feasible, but is a commercially less attractive route to 1,4-butanediol.
Abstract Guanine 11 was converted, in a one pot reaction, into 2-amino-6-[(4-chlorophenyl)sulfanyl]purine 9a in 88% isolated yield. 4-Acetoxy-3-(acetoxymethyl)butanol 23 was prepared from 2-chloroethanol in five steps and in 46% overall yield. The mesylate ester of compound 23 reacted with 9a in the presence of potassium carbonate with a high degree of regioselectivity (89%) to give the N −9 alkylated product 26 which was isolated in 80% yield. Acidic hydrolysis of the latter compound 26 gave penciclovir 4 in virtually quantitative yield. Penciclovir 4 and famciclovir 5 were prepared from 2-amino-6-[(4-chlorophenyl)sulfanyl]purine 9a in four and five steps, respectively, by procedures involving initial alkylation with 1,2-dibromoethane. The overall yields obtained were 65 and ca. 60%, respectively.
Abstract of the dissertation entitled "INTERACTIONS OF LUNG SURFACTANT LIPIDS WITH PROTEINS OF THE ALVEOLAR SPACE" submitted by Peter Pagast in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, June, 1975.of the dissertation entitled "INTERACTIONS OF LUNG SURFACTANT LIPIDS WITH PROTEINS OF THE ALVEOLAR SPACE" submitted by Peter Pagast in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, June, 1975. Dipalmitoyl phosphatidyl choline (DPC) is the major component of extracellular pulmonary surfactant. Model studies show it to be the primary constituent of surfactant responsible for the lowering of the surface tension in the alveolar air liquid interphase, which is essential for the respiratory process. There is little information as to the biochemical or physiological function of other lipids and the proteins found in the pulmonary surfactant. However, on isolation of pulmonary surfactant by the procedure of Frosolono .!!.! !:!.• (J. Lipid Res. .!!., 439-457, 1970), it is shown to consist of lipid-protein complexes with a consistent phospholipid to protein ratio. This work studies the composition, the physical, and the spectral properties of native and artificial model phospholipid-protein complexes for pulmonary surfactant. Dog alveolar surfa~tant was isolated and separated into its constituent lipid and protein components by partition chromatography over Sephadex LH-20 in 2-chloroethanol-water. A series of experiments resulting in reconstitution of surfactant lipidprotein complexes were performed to investigate the interaction of surfactant lipids with surfactant proteins. Reconstitution of the lipid and protein of the surfactant fraction of dog resulted in the formation of lipid-protein complexes which compared favorably with the original isolated surfactant complexes. These complexes were characterized by certain well-defined properties including their density, particle size, phospholipid to protein ratio, protein composition and circular dichroism. Reconstitution experiments were performed substituting delipidated albumin and delipidated dog serum proteins in place of surfactant proteins. Also, reconstitution experiments were performed utilizing commercial phosphatidylcholine in place of surfactant lipids• In all these experiments only a small yield of lipid-protein complexes were found, and the complex that did form had different physical and spectral properties from the reconstituted complex utilizing pulmonary surfactant lipids and proteins. When pulmonary extracellular proteins other than found in the pulmonary surfactant fraction were utilized in place of surfactant proteins in reconstitution experiments,_ the yield of phospholipid-protein complexes was high. However, the density of the complexes were di££use and dissimilar from that of native complexes. The a-helix content of the reconstituted complexes in SDS was higher than that of the delipidated apoprotein. A similar increase in a-helix content was not observed following reconstitution of surfactant 1ipids with de1ipidated protein from surface inactive fractions of 1ung washing, serum, or bovine albumin. Likewise, reconstitution of commercia1 phosphatidy1choline with surfactant protein was not associated with increased a-he1ix content of the formed complex. In a discontinuous gradient, the reconstituted 1ipid-protein comp1exes of the surfactant fraction appeared as a single band on a sucrose gradient, whi1e complexes of surfactant 1ipids with de1ipidated dog serum proteins or extrace1lular proteins of the 1ung other than found in the pulmonary surfactant fraction displayed a wide range of distributions on a sucrose gradient. Negatively stained preparations examined by electron microscopy demonstrated that the original surfactant fractions (obtained by a procedure involving sedimentation) contained large aggregates of liposomes widely varying in size and more uniformly distributed. The liposomes of reconstituted complexes were similar in size and distribution to those found in lung washing. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that the pro, tein composition of surfactant fraction was similar to that of serum, but two additional bands with approximate molecular weights of 11,000 and J5,000 were only seen in proteins of the surfactant fraction, and comprised 15 per cent of the surfactant proteins. The distribution of the individual proteins comprising the surfactant protein fraction did not change on reconstitution. Analysis of the protein in originally isolated and reconstituted
Abstract Conformational energy differences have been determined from Raman spectra of the molecules ethylene glycol and 2-chloroethanol in DMSO and water. It was found that solvent effects on the relative stabilities of the gauche and trans rotamers of the two alcohols differ significantly. In addition, it was observed from spectra in the O-H stretching region that, unlike 2-chloroethanol, there is no significant intramolecular hydrogen bond formation in ethylene glycol in the neat liquid phase. Neither molecule was found to form intramolecular hydrogen bonds in either of the solvents studied.
The change of viscosity, optical rotation, and flow birefringence of a gel-forming β-1,3-D-glucan in DMSO with the addition of 2-chloroethanol, dioxane, or water was studied. The results indicate a conformational transition of the glucan from a flexible disordered form to a rigid ordered structure with increasing mole fraction of these nonsolvents.
A general method to separate the major proteins of rat central and peripheral nervous system myelin has been developed. The key step is the initial quantitative removal of the lipids under conditions where the proteins retain their solubility in HPLC solvents. Lipids are removed by a combination of solvent extraction and column chromatography on Sephadex LH-60 in 2-chloroethanol:10 mM HCl (9:1). Proteins are then separated by reversed-phase (RP) HPLC. Samples are applied to a wide pore reversed-phase C-3 column and eluted with a linear gradient of 10-70% 1-propanol in 0.1% trifluoroacetic acid (0-100% B) over a 60-min period. Myelin basic proteins elute between 25 and 30% B, Wolfgram and other high molecular weight proteins at 35-50% B, proteolipid protein at 65-80% B, and P0 glycoprotein at 55-65% B. This elution pattern is consistent with the known relative hydrophobicity of these proteins. Protein recovery for the entire procedure is greater than 74%. Proteolipid and P0 proteins isolated by HPLC contain 2.3 and 1.1 mol of covalently bound fatty acids, respectively. This fatty acid composition is similar to that previously reported using different isolation procedures. The analysis of central and peripheral nervous system myelin proteins by RP-HPLC permits the isolation of purified proteins for structural and metabolic experiments.
Synthesis of N-(6-chloro-4-methylthio-1-oxo-isochroman-5-yl)-trifluoroacetamide,the key intermediate for an indole,was studied.Started from 2-chloroethanol,2-(methylthio)ethyl pivalate was obtained via neucleophilic substitution with sodium methanethiolate and esterification with pivaloyl chloride in overall yield of 92.2%.Treatment of 3-amino-4-chlorobenzoic acid with trimethoxymethane generated methyl 3-amino-4-chlorobenzoate in 80.0% yield.2-(Methylthio)ethyl pivalate was oxidized by sulfuryl chloride,and then reacted with methyl 3-amino-4-chlorobenzoate followed by rearrangement,hydrolysis and acylation to give the title compound in overall yield of 25.8%.
Abstract Evidence is presented which shows that 1-(2-chloroethyl) -3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea (CCNU) upon degradation provides a 2-chloroethyl alkylating intermediate, possibly 2-chloroethyl carbonium ion, and 2-chloroethanol. Thiol alkylation occurs in vivo and a major urinary metabolite of CCNU is thiodiacetic acid. A rapid microsomal hydroxylation of the cyclohexyl ring occurs which yields varying ratios of at least five metabolites: cis or trans 2-hydroxy, trans- 3-hydroxy, cis-3-hydroxy, cis-4-hydroxy and trans-4- hydroxy-CCNU. In vivo carbamoylation appears to not be due to cyclohexylisocyanate but to the various hydroxy-cyclohexylisocyanates which are formed from hydroxy CCNU metabolites.
The pharmacokinetics of high-dose fotemustine followed by autologous bone-marrow transplantation during a phase I–II clinical trial in 24 patients with glioblastoma or astrocytoma (grade III–IV) was investigated. Plasma levels of fotemustine were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and UV detection. The metabolite, 2-chloroethanol, was simultaneously followed in six patients by gag liquid chromatography and electron capture detection (GLC-ECD) assay. The drug was given as a 1-h infusion on 2 consecutive days. In all, 40 pharmacokinetic determinations of fotemustine were made at dose levels ranging from 2×300 to 2×500 mg/m2. Plasma drug elimination was best described by a bi-exponential model, with short distribution and elimination halflives of 4.15±2.57 and 28.8±12.1 min being observed, respectively. No significant difference in half-lives or clearance was seen between the first and the second administration. During dose escalation, the mean area under the concentrationtime curve (AUC) increased from 5.96±2.89 to 12.22±3.95 mg l−1h. Drug clearance was independent of the dose given and equal to 109±65 l/h, indicating no possible saturation of metabolism and elimination mechanisms at these high-dose levels. The metabolite 2-chloroethanol appeared very early in plasma samples. Its elimination was rapid and rate-limited by the kinetics of the parent compound, giving the same apparent terminal half-life. A close relationship between AUC and C45 values was evidenced (r=0.890). Associated with the stability of fotemustine kinetic parameters, this could be used in future studies for individual dose adjustment, particularly for high-dose fractionated regimens.
Organic solvent-induced coil helix conformational change of poly(sodium) L-glutamate (NaPLG) and poly(cesium L-glutamate) (CsPLG) in solution in aqueous mixed solvents have been studied at 25°C. Heats of dilution of NaPLG in the water–dioxane pair have been measured as a function of polymer concentration and solvent composition. The results indicate that the overall chain conformation in the disordered form is not too different from that in the α-helical form. Heat capacity measurements by flow microcalorimetry have also been done. The apparent monomolar heat capacity at constant pressure of the polymer, Cp, ϕ, decreases with dilution similarly to other strong polyelectrolytes in aqueous media. In the water–dioxane pair, Cp, ϕ increases with the dioxane content due to partial desolvation of ionic species resulting from increasing ionic association. In the case of the water-2-chloroethanol (CE) pair, the transition takes place at low CE content and results show a fast decrease in Cp, ϕ when the α-helical conformation predominates. It is believed carboxylate groups and CE molecules associate themselves into a complex formation responsible for the transition. The size of the cation plays a significant role in the thermodynamic properties of these polyelectrolytes in solution since sodium ions are more strongly bound to the chain than cesium ions.
Methylocystis strain SB2, a facultative methanotroph capable of growth on multi-carbon compounds, was screened for its ability to degrade the priority pollutants 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCA), 1,1,2-trichloroethane (1,1,2-TCA), and 1,1-dichloroethylene (1,1-DCE), as well as cis-dichloroethylene (cis-DCE) when grown on methane or ethanol. Methylocystis strain SB2 degraded 1,2-DCA and 1,1,2-TCA when grown on either substrate and cis-DCE when grown on methane. Growth of Methylocystis strain SB2 on methane was inhibited in the presence of all compounds, while only 1,1-DCE and cis-DCE inhibited growth on ethanol. No degradation of any chlorinated hydrocarbon was observed in ethanol-grown cultures when particulate methane monooxygenase (pMMO) activity was inhibited with the addition of acetylene, indicating that competition for binding to the pMMO between the chlorinated hydrocarbons and methane limited both methanotrophic growth and pollutant degradation when this strain was grown on methane. Characterization of Methylocystis strain SB2 found no evidence of a high-affinity form of pMMO for methane, nor could this strain utilize 1,2-DCA or its putative oxidative products 2-chloroethanol or chloroactetic acid as sole growth substrates, suggesting that this strain lacks appropriate dehydrogenases for the conversion of 1,2-DCA to glyoxylate. As ethanol: (1) can be used as an alternative growth substrate for promoting pollutant degradation by Methylocystis strain SB2 as the pMMO is not required for its growth on ethanol and (2) has been used to enhance the mobility of chlorinated hydrocarbons in situ, it is proposed that ethanol can be used to enhance both pollutant transport and biodegradation by Methylocystis strain SB2.
Tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP), a typical chlorinated organophosphate ester (OPE), is an emerging contaminant of global concern because of its frequent occurrence, potential toxic effects, and persistence in the environment. In this study, we investigated microbial TCEP biotransformation and the development of microbial communities in sediment microcosms with repeated TCEP amendments. TCEP degradation fitted pseudo zero-order kinetics, with reaction rates of 0.068 mg/L/h after 1st spike of 5 mg/L and 1.85 mg/L/h after 2nd spike of 50 mg/L. TCEP was mainly degraded via phosphoester bond hydrolysis, evidenced by the production of bis(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (BCEP) and mono-chloroethyl phosphate (MCEP). Bis(2-chloroethyl) 2-hydroxyethyl phosphate (TCEP-OH), phosphoric bis(2-chloroethyl) (2-oxoethyl) ester (TCEP-CHO), phosphoric acid bis(2-chloroethyl)(carboxymethyl) ester (TCEP-COOH), and 2-chloroethyl 2-hydroxyethyl hydrogen phosphate (BCEP-OH) were also identified as microbial TCEP transformation products, indicating that TCEP degradation may follow hydrolytic dechlorination and oxidation pathways. Microbial community compositions in TCEP-amended microcosms shifted away from control microcosms after 2nd TCEP spike. Burkholderiales and Rhizobiales were two prevalent bacterial guilds enriched in TCEP-amended microcosms, and were linked to the higher abundances of alkaline and acid phosphatase genes and genes involved in the metabolism of 2-chloroethanol, a side product of TCEP hydrolysis, indicating their importance in degrading TCEP and its metabolites.
The gas-phase and aqueous-solution-phase reactivities of hydroxyl radicals with a wide variety of organic compounds are compared. When kinetic data are available for the same reaction occurring in both phases, this comparison provides useful information about the reaction mechanism. Through this comparison the authors can demonstrate a linear correlation between the gas/solution-phase OH reactivities for numerous saturated organic compounds. This empirical relationship can be used together with mechanistic information to estimate the OH reactivity in one phase from the measured rate constant in the other. In order to develop and extend the correlation, they have used the flash photolysis resonance fluorescence technique to measure rate constants for the gas-phase reactions of OH radicals with methanol-d/sub 4/, ethanol-d/sub 6/, 2-chloroethanol, 2,2,2-trichloroethanol, 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol, acetone-d/sub 6/, 1,1,1-trifluoroacetone, and 1,2-butylene oxide at 298 K. These results are reported herein.
Abstract 2-Chloroethanol is a potential reaction product between ethylene oxide and a free chloride ion. Certain plastic devices, such as those of the polyvinyl chloride types, contain such free chloride ions and are often sterilized by ethylene oxide. Depending on the chloride ion content and residual ethylene oxide, varying amounts of 2-chloroethanol (a chlorohydrin) may be formed as the reaction product. Since this agent is less volatile than the ethylene oxide, standard degassing procedures may leave residual 2-chloroethanol in the plastic device. If these devices come into prolonged contact with tissues, as might occur with tracheotomy tubes, the possibility exists for tissue damage from leaching 2-chloroethanol. This paper reports on the effect of pure 2-chloroethanol, and various dilutions of this material, on several of the tissue types with which a tracheotomy tube might come into contact in a patient. It was found that pure 2-chloroethanol is quite destructive to most of the tissues, including ophthalmic, mucosal, muscular, and subcutaneous tissues; however, on dilution, the toxicity potential decreased sharply. dilutions of 1:10 were still toxic, but in most cases, dilutions of 1:100 were practically innocuous. A cell culture evaluation correlated almost perfectly with in vivo techniques.
The effects of 2-chloroethanol(2-CE) on rat tissue following in vitro and in vivo exposure were studied. At concentrations as low as 2.5 mg/ml, protein synthesis in liver slices was inhibited; at concentrations of 25 mg/ml and above, RNA synthesis and respiration were also impaired. Single oral doses of 2-CE to young adult rats at levels of 15-40 mg/kg body weight depressed liver nonprotein sulfhydryl (GSH) concentration and liver protein but not RNA synthesis. Liver lipid was increased by 7 hr after a single oral dose of 30 mg/kg. The time courses and dose-response relationship for GSH depletion and restoration and for protein synthesis inhibition and recovery were similar. The livers of female rats were more sensitive than the livers of male rats to the effects of 2-CE. Protein synthesis was also depressed in kidneys of 2-CE-treated male rats but at higher doses than those needed for this effect to occur in livers of the same animals. Liver polysome disaggregation also occurred after oral 2-CE doses of 20 mg/kg and greater. The effects of 2-CE on ribosome profiles and protein synthesis were at least partially reversed by concurrent intraperitoneal administration of cysteine. The possible relationship of these findings to a role of GSH in protein synthesis is discussed.
Molecular sieve chromatography andsucrosegradient centrifugation were used topreparelarge quantities ofpurified chromatophores fromRhodopseudomonas spheroides. Electron micrographs ofthesechromatophores revealed thatthefinal preparations were veryhomogeneous andfreeofnon-chromatophore particulate material. As an additional checkon purity, 14C-L-phenylalanine-labeled aerobic cells, devoid ofchromatophores, were mixedwithunlabeled photosynthetic cells. Theresulting preparation contained less than1% oftheradioactivity, originally located innon-chromatophore protein. Thepurified chromatophores were solubilized in2-chloroethanol andseparated into twofractions. Fraction P,contained 3to 5% ofthetotal chromatophore protein andcouldberesolved into10electrophoretic components. Thesecondfraction, P,,, contained fiveelectrophoretic components. Oneofthese components hadassociated withitallofthepigment andphospholipid present inPII. Preliminary immunochemical studies on thesefractions are alsoreported. Intheir early studies ontheultrastructure of thepurple bacteria, Vatter andWolfe(34)demonstrated theexistence ofchromatophores inthe cytoplasm ofcells grownanaerobically inthe light (phototrophic). These"organelles" (subcellular structures possessing aspecialized function) appeared tobeabsent during aerobic, dark growth (chemotrophic). Examination ofthin sections ofRhodospirillum rubrumandRhodopseudomonas spheroides byCohen-Bazire (5) confirmed thatchromatophores wereeither rare orabsent inchemotrophic cells. Thetransition of R.spheroides fromchemotrophic tophototrophic growth withtheconcurrent biosynthesis ofchromatophores provides anopportunity to studytheinduction anddevelopment ofthis complexmembranous organelle. Inaddition, suchstudies should enable ustogaininsight into themolecular architecture oforganelle structure aswellasstructure-function relationships. A
Tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP), a flame retardant, is recently regarded as a potentially toxic and persistent environmental contaminant. We previously isolated TCEP-degrading bacterium, Sphingobium sp. strain TCM1, which, however, produced a toxic metabolite: 2-chloroethanol (2-CE). This study was undertaken to develop a detoxification technique of TCEP using strain TCM1 with a 2-CE-degrading bacterium: Xanthobacter autotrophicus strain GJ10. TCEP degradation by strain TCM1-resting cells was thermally stable for 30 min at 30 °C. It was optimal at 30 °C and at pH 8.5. In the optimum condition, TCM1 cells up to a final cell density of 0.8 at OD(660) in the reaction mixture were unable to hydrolyze the phosphotriester bonds of 10 μM TCEP completely. The addition of 50 μM Co(2+) to reaction mixture enhanced the hydrolysis and caused the complete hydrolysis at the cell density of 0.8. Strain GJ10 resting cells degraded 2-CE only slightly, which might be attributable to lack of coenzyme regeneration of enzymes involved in the degradation. In contrast, the growing cells degraded approximately 180 μM of 2-CE within 24 h. Based on these results, we designed a two-step TCEP detoxification reaction consisting of TCEP hydrolysis to 2-CE by strain TCM1-resting cells and the following degradation of the resulting 2-CE by strain GJ10-growing cells. The combined reaction completely detoxified 10 μM TCEP, and thus opens a way to microbial detoxification of the potential toxic, persistent organophosphorus compound.
AIM To study an improved process for the preparation of raloxifene hydrochloride with antiosteoporosis activity. [METHODS] Using 2-chloroethanol, piperidine and anisole as starting materials, raloxifene hydrochloride was synthesized by a twelve-step procedure. [RESULTS] Each step was improved, and the total yield was 4.99%. The constitution of desired product was confirmed by elemental analysis, IR, 1HNMR, 13CNMR and MS. [CONCLUSION] The process can be easily controlled and is suitable for industrial production.
The nitration, bromination, diazo coupling, sulfonation, and alkylation of the aromatic ring of a series of 2-phosphoryl-substituted phenols have been studied for the first time. 2,6-Diphosphorylphenols have been obtained for the first time via 1,3-phosphorotropic phosphate-phosphonate rearrangement. The alkylation of 2-(diphenylphosphoryl)phenol at the hydroxy group with 2-bromo- and 2-chloroethanols has been studied under conventional heating and microwave irradiation conditions.
Abstract The antineoplastic activity in animals of 1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-(2′,3′,4′-tri-O-acetyl, ribopyranosyl)-1-nitrosourea (RPCNU) has been widely demonstrated. The present study deals with the disposition and the metabolism in rats of three 14C-labeled species of RPCNU. The chemical plasma half-life of the drug was less than 5 min. Within the first min after injection, most of the radioactivity derived from ethyl-14C groups was recovered as volatile products. Among these, 2-chloroethanol was identified as a main component. Analysis of labeled species in urine after administration of [ethyl-14C]RPCNU showed that thiodiacetic acid and its sulf-oxide were major metabolites of RPCNU (62% of the urinary radioactivity). Traces of N-acetylcarboxymethyl- and N-acetylhydroxyethylcysteine were also detected. The only labeled species concentrating in particular tissues was that carrying the chloroethyl moiety. Uptake to high levels of [ethyl-14C] RPCNU did occur in liver, kidney, pancreas, thymus, and Harder9s gland.
Water-soluble organic compounds are hydroxylated by aqueous solutions of chloroplatinum(II) and chloroplatinum(IV) salts. p-Toluenesulfonic acid is converted stepwise to the corresponding alcohol and aldehyde, the first step being somewhat faster than the second. No further conversion to the carboxylic acid is observed. Ethanol shows substantial selectivity for attack at a C-H bond of the methyl group, affording ethylene glycol and 2-chloroethanol, as well as more expected products such as acetaldehyde and acetic acid. The origin of the unusual selectivity patterns is discussed in terms of the mechanism of activation of C-H bonds by Pt(II) species.
The aggregation properties of S-carboxymethyl bovine serum albumin (SCM-BSA) have been shown to be greatly influenced by the presence of thioglycollide esters in the thioglycollic acid used as a reducing medium. Pure thioglycollic acid gives a product which is aggregated at both pH 7 and 9. Disaggregation may be effected by sodium dodecyl sulfate, by covalently linking groups on to the molecule in order to increase the net negative charge, and solvents such as 8M urea, 14M formamide, 11.5M acetic acid, formic acid, and 2-chloroethanol. The mechanisms underlying disaggregation in these widely differing solvents are discussed. The results confirm previous findings of a single polypeptide chain in serum albumin. The optical rotatory dispersion of BSA and SCM-BSA have been compared in a variety of solvents. It has been shown that the disulfide crosslinks in BSA are not the limiting factor to α-helix formation.
Abstract Baker's yeast immobilized on chrysotile and montmorillonite stereoselectively reduced 1-phenyl-1,2-propanedione to the corresponding (1R,2S)-diol. The immobilized biocatalyst was also successfully used for asymmetric synthesis of 2-amino-1-phenylethanol and (R)- or (S)-1-phenyl-2-chloroethanol. The catalysts was reusable for more than 8 cycles. Baker's yeast immobilized on chrysotile and montmorillonite stereoselectively reduced phenylketones to the corresponding alcohols.
I Pepsin is insoluble in hydrophobic lbond(t-l)r(king reagents. Although it is possible to dissolve the protein in dichloroacetic acid, an irreversible loss of activity occurs instantaneously; likewise exposure to 2-chloroethanol inactivates pjepsin whether the assay is conducted in the presence or absence of the reagent.
Two techniques were investigated for degrading a number of halogenated compounds of commercial and research importance. Reductive dehalogenation with nickel-aluminum alloy in potassium hydroxide solution was used to degrade iodomethane, chloroacetic acid, trichloroacetic acid, 2-chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol, 2-chloroethylamine, 2-bromoethylamine, 1-bromobutane, 1-iodobutane, 2-bromobutane, 2-iodobutane, 2-bromo-2-methylpropane, 2-iodo-2-methylpropane, 3-chloropyridine, fluorobenzene, chlorobenzene, bromobenzene, iodobenzene, 4-fluoroaniline, 2-chloroaniline, 3-chloroaniline, 4-chloroaniline, 4-fluoronitrobenzene, 2-chloronitrobenzene, 3-chloronitrobenzene, 4-chloronitrobenzene, benzyl chloride, benzyl bromide, alpha,alpha-dichlorotoluene, and 3-aminobenzotrifluoride. The products were generally those obtained by replacing the halogen with hydrogen although concomitant reduction of the other groups was also observed. Bibenzyl was produced during the reduction of benzyl chloride, benzyl bromide, and alpha,alpha-dichlorotoluene. Refluxing with ethanolic potassium hydroxide was used to degrade iodomethane, chloroacetic acid, 2-fluoroethanol, 2-chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol, 1-chlorobutane, 1-bromobutane, 1-iodobutane, 2-bromobutane, 2-iodobutane, 2-bromo-2-methylpropane, 2-iodo-2-methylpropane, benzyl chloride, benzyl bromide, 1-bromononane, 1-chlorodecane, and 1-bromodecane. The products were the corresponding ethyl ethers. 2-Methylaziridine was cleaved with nickel-aluminum alloy in potassium hydroxide solution to a mixture of isopropylamine and n-propylamine. In all cases, the compounds were completely degraded and only nonmutagenic reaction mixtures were produced.
The pathway of 2-chloroethanol degradation in the denitrifying Pseudomonas stutzeri strain JJ was investigated. In cell-free extracts, activities of a phenazine methosulfate (PMS)-dependent chloroethanol dehydrogenase, an NAD-dependent chloroacetaldehyde dehydrogenase, and a chloroacetate dehalogenase were detected. This suggested that the 2-chloroethanol degradation pathway in this denitrifying strain is the same as found in aerobic bacteria that degrade chloroethanol. Activity towards primary alcohols, secondary alcohols, diols, and other chlorinated alcohols could be measured in cell-free extracts with chloroethanol dehydrogenase (CE-DH) activity. PMS and phenazine ethosulfate (PES) were used as primary electron acceptors, but not NAD, NADP or ferricyanide. Cells of strain JJ cultured in a continuous culture under nitrate limitation exhibited chloroethanol dehydrogenase activity that was a 12 times higher than in cells grown in batch culture. However, under chloroethanol-limiting conditions, CE-DH activity was in the same range as in batch culture. Cells grown on ethanol did not exhibit CE-DH activity. Instead, NAD-dependent ethanol dehydrogenase (E-DH) activity and PMS-dependent E-DH activity were detected.
Abstract The tryptic peptide comprising Residues 38 to 61 of oxidized bovine pancreatic ribonuclease A was isolated and shown to be convertible in part to a helical conformation in 2-chloroethanol- or 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol-water mixtures. The characteristic trough in the optical rotatory dispersion spectrum near 233 mµ associated with the helical conformation of the peptide was progressively reduced by addition of each of 3 eq of cupric ion. The depth of the trough was regained quantitatively by addition of ethylenediaminetetraacetate equivalent to the cupric ion present. The absorption and optical rotatory spectra of the cupricpeptide complexes are qualitatively similar to those of some smaller peptides in which chelation by amide nitrogen atoms of peptide bonds has been demonstrated. The points of similarity include absorption maxima in the range of 525 to 550 mµ and optically active bands near 330 mµ and 530 mµ. A Cotton effect centered near 260 mµ in the complexes of the ribonuclease peptide is more clearly resolved than in the previous studies with smaller peptides. These results are in keeping with contributions from binding sites at the NH2 terminus at the region of the histidine residue. Tentatively, the location of the third site is indicated from a molecular model to comprise members of the last 4, COOH-terminal residues. The effect of cupric ion binding on the helix content of the peptide is interpreted in terms of the conformational incompatibility of the chelate complexes with the α-helix. The observations do not support a strictly all-or-none metal-peptide interaction.
A series of 2 haloethanols and 3 epoxides was investigated in 3 mutagenicity test systems, namely (1) the fluctuation test in Klebsiella pneumoniae, (2) the sex-linked recessive lethal test in Drosophila melanogaster, and (3) the HGPRT test with L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells. The order of mutagenic potency was, in Klebsiella: glycidaldehyde greater than 2-bromoethanol = epichlorohydrin greater than 1,2-epoxybutane greater than 2-chloroethanol; in Drosophila: glycidaldehyde = epichlorohydrin greater than 1,2-epoxybutane; in mouse lymphoma cells: epichlorohydrin greater than 1,2-epoxybutane. The haloethanols were non-mutagenic in Drosophila. 2-Chloroethanol and glycidaldehyde were negative in mouse lymphoma cells. The high mutagenic potency of epichlorohydrin as compared with 1,2-epoxybutane was consistent in all systems, and with published data.
The present invention relates to a method for synthesizing carotenoid inducing agent 2-diaminoethyl-4-tolyl ether salt and its application in tobaco.Said invention uses p-cresol, 2-chloroethanol and ethylenediamine as raw material, through the processes of amination, chlorization and Williamson synthesis of ethers,and obtains the product 2-aminoethyl-4-tolyl ether, then makes said product and equimolar organic acid produce salt-forming reaction to obtain the invented 2-diaminoethyl-4-tolyl ether salt. It can be mixed with alcoholic solvent, and made into the 0.001-0.01M (weight ratio) solution, then said solution can be applied on the tobaco leaf, sprayed or impregnated on the tobaco leaf, then dried in airing, closed in polyethylene bag, temp. is controlled at 18-20 deg.C, and stood still for 5 days, so that its application can be implemented.
Biolignin, a wheat straw lignin produced by acetic acid/formic acid/water hydrolysis, was characterized by (31)P and (13)C-(1)H 2D NMR spectroscopy and by size-exclusion chromatography. Biolignin is a mixture of low molar mass compounds (Mn = 1660 g/mol) made up of S, G, and H units and of coumaric and ferulic acid units. β-5 and β-O-4 interunit linkages are partially acylated in the γ-position by acetate and p-coumarate groups. Deacylated samples with a low content of contaminants were obtained by combining alkaline hydrolysis and solvent extraction. The high phenolic OH content found by (31)P NMR reflects the presence of condensed aromatic units, such as 5-5 units. Reaction of purified lignin with ethanol and ethane-1,2-diol yielded esterified lignins much more soluble than Biolignin in common organic solvents. During this reaction, the secondary OH of β-O-4 linkages was simultaneously etherified. Phenol hydroxyethylation by 2-chloroethanol yielded samples containing only aliphatic hydroxyl groups.
Ultraviolet absorption and circular dichroism studies have been carried out on horse heart apo-cytochrome c and heme-free peptide fragments obtained by cyanogen bromide cleavage of the native protein. It was noted that the various peptides assume predominantly an unordered conformation in water solution. Increasing ionic strength and addition of 2-chloroethanol increase the right-handed helical content. Guanidinium hydrochloride favors the coil state. It was also demonstrated that two non-interacting helical regions of different stability are present in the apo-protein in 2-chloroethanol.
The hydroxy proton multiplicity of 2-chloroethanol has been studied in inert solvents. It has been found that only a singlet is observed in fully dehydrated sample solutions from neat to 0.02M concentration at room temperature. A trace of water present in the sample solutions causes a multiplet structure at lower alcohol concentrations. The singlet can be explained in terms of proton exchange within the associated species of the alcohol as a result of the increased acidity of the hydroxy proton due to chlorine substitution. The triplet is interpreted as the result of the reduction in proton exchange within the associated species caused by water molecules which are incorporated into the associated species of the alcohol.
Heterotropic cooperativity effects in the binding of alcohols and NAD+ or NADH to liver alcohol dehydrogenase have been examined by equilibrium measurements and stopped-flow kinetic studies. Equilibrium data are reported for benzyl alcohol, 2-chloroethanol, 2,2-dichloroethanol, and trifluoroethanol binding to free enzyme over the pH range 6-10. Binary-complex formation between enzyme and alcohols leads to inner-sphere coordination of the alcohol to catalytic zinc and shows a pH dependence reflecting the ionization states of zinc-bound water and the zinc-bound alcohol. The affinity of the binding protonation state of the enzyme for unionized alcohols increases approximately by a factor of 10 on complex formation between enzyme and NAD+ or NADH. The rate and kinetic cooperativity with coenzyme binding of the alcohol association step indicates that enzyme-bound alcohols participate in hydrogen bonding interactions which affect the rates of alcohol and coenzyme equilibration with the enzyme without providing any pronounced contribution to the net energetics of alcohol binding. The pKa values determined for alcohol deprotonation at the binary-complex level are linearly dependent on those of the free alcohols, and can be readily reconciled with the pKa values attributed to ionization of zinc-bound water. Alcohol coordination to catalytic zinc provides a major contribution to the pKa shift which ensures that the substrate is bound predominantly as an alcoholate ion in the catalytically productive ternary complex at physiological pH. The additional pKa shift contributed by NAD+ binding is less pronounced, but may be of particular mechanistic interest since it increases the acidity of zinc-bound alcohols relatively to that of zinc-bound water.
Abstract A “green”, simple, technically and economically feasible synthesis of valuable ethylene carbonate from 2-chloroethanol and CO2 was developed using K2CO3 as a base, silica gel as a catalyst and under mild reaction conditions. The influence of reaction temperature, CO2 pressure, base and additives on conversion of 2-chloroethanol was studied.
The large-scale application of chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons (CAHs) has resulted in many cases of groundwater contamination. Contaminated groundwater can be remediated by pump-and-treat: the groundwater is pumped to the surface and treated. The groundwater can be treated in bioreactors, in which the contaminants are biodegraded. Since extracted groundwater is often anaerobic, it has to be oxygenated in order to allow aerobic biodegradation of the contaminants. However, direct oxygenation of (anaerobic) groundwater may result in two undesired effects: stripping of volatile contaminants and coagulation of iron oxides. The use of a membrane-aerated biofilm reactor (MABR) can solve these problems. At one side of the membrane a gas phase is present for the supply of oxygen. A biofilm is located at the other side of the membrane, where the contaminant is present in the liquid phase. The contaminant diffuses into the biofilm, where biodegradation takes place. The combination of a membrane with a biofilm allows oxygenation and biodegradation without stripping the contaminant and coagulation of iron oxides. The main contaminant studied in this thesis is 1,2 dichloroethane (DCA), a synthetic chemical that is mainly used as a feedstock for the production of vinyl chloride. Known bacterial strains that are able to aerobically degrade DCA, Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 and Ancylobacter autotrophicus AD25, do not have the desired characteristics for treatment of DCA-contaminated groundwater. Both strains require additional organic nutrients, such as vitamins, for optimal growth. Moreover, strain GJ10 has a very low affinity for DCA ( K m value of 570 µM). Two major objectives were proposed at the start of this research. The first objective was to isolate DCA-degrading microorganisms with a high affinity for DCA and without requirements for additional organic nutrients for optimal growth. The second objective was to apply the isolated microorganisms in a MABR that allows aerobic biodegradation of DCA, without direct oxygenation of the contaminated groundwater. In Chapter 2, the isolation and characterization of a bacterial strain, designated Pseudomonas sp. strain DCA1, is described. Strain DCA1 utilizes DCA as the sole carbon and energy source and does not require additional organic nutrients for optimal growth. The maximum specific growth rate of strain DCA1 on DCA is 0.14 h -1 . The affinity of strain DCA1 for DCA is very high, with a K m value below the detection limit of 0.5 µM. Instead of a hydrolytic dehalogenation, as was shown in other DCA utilizers, the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1 is an oxidation reaction. Oxygen and NAD(P)H are required for this initial step. Propene was converted to 1,2-epoxypropane by DCA-grown cells, and competitively inhibited DCA degradation. We concluded that a monooxygenase is responsible for the first step in DCA degradation in strain DCA1. Oxidation of DCA probably results in the formation of the unstable intermediate 1,2-dichloroethanol, which spontaneously releases chloride, yielding chloroacetaldehyde. The DCA degradation pathway in strain DCA1 proceeds from chloroacetaldehyde via chloroacetic acid and glycolic acid, which is similar to degradation routes observed in other DCA-utilizing bacteria. Strain DCA1 was applied in a MABR for the removal of DCA from (ground)water (Chapter 3). A hydrophobic membrane was used to create a barrier between the liquid and the gas phase. Inoculation of the MBR with cells of strain DCA1 grown in a continuous culture resulted in the formation of a stable and active DCA-degrading biofilm on the membrane. The maximum DCA removal rate in the MABR was 410 g m -3 h -1 . This maximum removal rate was reached at a DCA concentration of approximately 80 µM. Simulation of the DCA fluxes into the biofilm showed that the MABR performance at lower concentrations was limited by the DCA diffusion rate rather than by kinetic constraints of strain DCA1. To determine the effect of bacterial kinetics on reactor performance, we also simulated the performance of strain GJ10 in our MABR. At 80 µM the simulated DCA flux into a strain GJ10 biofilm is more than 8 times lower. At a concentration of 4 µM (the intervention value for DCA in The Netherlands), the simulated flux into a biofilm of strain GJ10 is less than 5% of the flux generated into a biofilm of strain DCA1. Aerobic biodegradation of DCA present in anoxic water could be achieved by supplying oxygen solely from the gas phase to the biofilm grown on the liquid side of the membrane. Since the degradation of DCA by strain DCA1 is mediated by a monooxygenase, and these enzymes generally have a broad substrate spectrum, strain DCA1 was used to co-metabolically oxidize chlorinated methanes, ethanes, propanes and ethenes (Chapter 4). Chloroacetic acid, an intermediate in the DCA degradation pathway of strain DCA1, was used as a co-substrate since it was readily oxidized by DCA-grown cells of strain DCA1 and did not compete for the monooxygenase. All of the tested compounds except tetrachloroethene were oxidized by cells expressing DCA monooxygenase. Strain DCA1 could not utilize any of these compounds as a growth substrate. Co-metabolic oxidation during growth on DCA was tested with 1,2-dichloropropane, since this compound shows structure analogy to DCA but is recalcitrant to aerobic biodegradation. Although growth on this mixture occurred, 1,2-dichloropropane strongly inhibited growth of strain DCA1. This inhibition was not caused by competition for the monooxygenase. It was shown that the oxidation of 1,2-dichloropropane resulted in the accumulation of 2,3-dichloro-1-propanol and 2-chloroethanol. An alternative to pump-and-treat is in situ bioremediation. This technology is based on microorganisms biodegrading the contaminants in the subsurface. Besides addition of electron donors, electron acceptors and/or nutrients to stimulate the biodegradation ('biostimulation'), also non-indigenous microorganisms can be injected into the subsurface, a process called 'bioaugmentation' (Chapter 5). Bioaugmentation can be applied in case the indigenous microorganisms are: - degrading the contaminant at rates that are too low; - inhibited by the presence of multiple contaminants; - killed as a result of drastic (abiotic) remediation techniques; - not capable to carry out the desired reactions. The latter case seems to be the most promising field for application of bioaugmentation. A good example is the incomplete reduction of tetrachloroethene, which often stalls at cis- 1,2-dichloroethene. Bioaugmentation with members of the Dehalococcoides group has proven its success, resulting in complete reduction of tetrachloroethene to the harmless end product ethene. To efficiently bioaugmentate a contaminated site, the introduced microorganisms have to be distributed in the subsurface and come into close contact with the contaminant(s). Transport of cells in the subsurface is often limited because injected cells are filtered by soil particles, but can be enhanced by using solutions of low ionic strength, surfactants and bacteria with limited adhesive properties. The survival of injected bacteria depends on factors such as competition for electron donors and acceptors, contaminant toxicity and the availability of inorganic nutrients. The use of genetically engineered microorganisms (GMOs) for bioaugmentation has not made much progress over the past decades due to regulatory constraints and public adversity. To justify the cost of bioaugmentation it is important to accurately assess the effect of bioaugmentation on the biodegradation. Molecular techniques have evolved rapidly, allowing the determination of both numbers and types of bacteria present. Future research on bioaugmentation should focus on large-scale field studies and more attention has to be paid to proper control plots and assessment of bioaugmentation efficacy.
The reactions between a few 1,2-chlorohydrins and sodium hydroxide have been studied and shown to involve a two-step nucleophilic elimination of hydrogen chloride. The data are given for the slow rate-determining step of 2-chloroethanol 1, 2-chloro-1-propanol 2, 1-chloro-2-propanol 3, 2-chloro-2-methyl-1-propanol 4 and 1-chloro-2-methyl-2-propanol 5. Compounds 4 and 5 gave 2-methyl-1,2-propanediol as the final product instead of oxiranes given by compounds 1−3. In contrast to some earlier reports the mere water reaction was shown to be almost negligible. In constant ionic strength the base concentration had no effect on the rates whereas at different base concentrations (0.050−0.250 mol dm −3 ) alone the rate of alkaline dehydrochlorination of 1 clearly decreased (10 3 k2, dm 3 mol −1 s −1 : 10.0−8.7, respectively). The rate of 2 at constant base concentration (0.010 mol dm −3 ) and at different ionic strengths (dm 3 mol −1 : 0.010−0.500) decreased also (10 3 k2, dm 3 mol −1 s −1 : 76−65, respectively) indicating that the decrease is mainly due to the change in the ionic strength also in the former case.
Alkaline dehydrochlorination of 1,3-chlorohydrins is relatively well documented 1 whereas much less information is available on that of 1,2-chlorohydrins. 2−6 Most of the reports deal with the preparation of hydrogen chloride 7 or different oxiranes. 8, 9 The best report is that of Ballinger and Long 10 on the dehydrochlorination of 2-chloroethanol 1 which also summarizes some early studies. They proved that the reaction between 1 and sodium hydroxide is a specific hydroxide ion catalysis via a two-step mechanism including the prior equilibrium and the slow ratedetermining step:
11 −13 This is why we decided to study the alkaline dehydrochlorination of 2-chloroethanol 1, 2-chloro-1-propanol 2, 1-chloro-2-propanol 3, 1-chloro-2-methyl-2-propanol 4 and 2-chloro-2-methyl-1-propanol 5 as well as their neutral water reactions in some detail. Table 1 . Pseudo first-order (k 1 ') and second-order (k 2 ) rate constants for the alkaline dehydrochlorination of 2-chloroethanol 1 at 35 °C, 2-chloro-1-propanol 2 at 25 °C and 1-chloro-2-propanol 3 at 10 °C at different base concentrations in a constant ionic strength (at 0.100 mol dm −3 adjusted with NaNO3) 
Abstract Investigation of the products obtained from reaction of cholesterol with hydrogen chloride has shown that in some solvents (e.g. di-isopropyl ether) yields are low and substitution products are dominant whilst in others (e.g. ethanol) yields are higher and elimination products predominate. Hydrogen chloride in 2-chloroethanol is unexpectedly reactive with cholesterol. The formation of the elimination product, cholesta-3,5-diene (IV), by acid-catalysed dehydration of cholesterol has been shown to proceed by a route which does not involve the carbonium ion (I). The results are interpreted by postulating either a unimolecular or a bimolecular elimination in competition with unimolecular substitution. It is considered that the varying proportions in which the products of the competing reactions are formed depends primarily on the extent of the solvent stabilization of the protonated steroidal alcohol.
The compound P(CF3)2(OCH2CH2Cl), L, can be prepared in high yield by the reaction of P(CF3)2Cl with 2-chloroethanol. The ligand displaces CO or PF3 from [Co(CO)3(NO)], [CoH(PF3)4], and [MnH(CO)5], but [{Fe-(η-C5H5)(CO)2}2] gives a little [Fe(η-C5H5)(CO)2{P(CF3)2}] as the only isolable organometallic product. Treatment of [MnH(CO)4L] with CCl4 gives a mixture of [MnCl(CO)4L] and [Mn2Cl2(CO)8]. The complex cis-[Mn(CO)4(η-C2H4)2O}] is formed by a novel rearrangement in the reaction of [MnH(CO)4L] with NMe3 or of [MnCl(CO)4L] with sodium amalgam.
The products of decomposition in anaerobic aqueous solution at pH 7.1 and 37 degrees were determined for two series of novel anticancer agents incorporating both nitroimidazole and 2-chloroethylnitrosourea moieties (NI-CENUs) and examples of which exhibit preferential hypoxic toxicity against HeLa-MR cells. The decomposition products identified were vinyl chloride, acetaldehyde, 2-chloroethanol, ethylene glycol and imidazole-bearing compounds of the type including oxazolidinone, ethylamine or urea moieties. Series A NI-CENUs, which contain a 2-hydroxypropyl unit, gave rise to the oxazolidinone intramolecularly compared with the series B agents which gave rise to the imidazole-ethylamine and ureas. The half-lives of the B series agents were comparable with those of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)nitrosourea (BCNU), 2-cyclohexyl-1-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (CCNU) and streptozotocin. The carbamoylation activity of the series B agents was approximately ten times that of series A compounds. This latter property may be related to the greater potency of series B than series A NI-CENUs against Mer+ HeLa-S3 cells via inhibition of relevant repair enzymes.
Alcohol-induced structural changes in the acid-denatured Bacillus licheniformis α-amylase (BLA) at pH 2.0 were studied by far-ultra violet circular dichroism, intrinsic, three-dimensional and 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonic acid (ANS) fluorescence, acrylamide quenching and thermal denaturation. All the alcohols used in this study produced partial refolding in the acid-denatured BLA as evident from the increased mean residue ellipticity at 222 nm, increased intrinsic fluorescence and decreased ANS fluorescence. The order of effectiveness of these alcohols to induce a partially folded state of BLA was found to be: 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol/tert-butanol > 1-propanol/2-propanol > 2-chloroethanol > ethanol > methanol. Three-dimensional fluorescence and acrylamide quenching results obtained in the presence of 5.5 M tert-butanol also suggested formation of a partially folded state in the acid-denatured BLA. However, 5.5 M tert-butanol-induced state of BLA showed a non-cooperative thermal transition. All these results suggested formation of a partially folded state of the acid-denatured BLA in the presence of these alcohols. Furthermore, their effectiveness was found to be guided by their chain length, position of methyl groups and presence of the substituents.
An one-pot reaction of Re 2 (CO) 10 and an α-diimine (1:2 molar ratio) in refluxed 2-chloroethanol afforded the corresponding chlorotricarbonyl(α-diimine)rhenium(I) complexes, fac -(CO) 3 (α-diimine)ReCl, 1 - 4 , in very high yield. The α-diimines in 1 - 4 are 2,2′-bipyridyl, 1,10-phenanthroline, 2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline, and 2,9-dimethyl-4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline, respectively. Alternatively, an one-pot reaction of Re 2 (CO) 10 and an α-diimine (1:2 mole ratio) in refluxed 1-pentanol in the presence of CO 2 and HCl yielded the corresponding chloro complexes, 1 - 4 , in very high yield. 1 - 4 were characterized spectroscopically. Additionally, 3 and 4 were characterized through X-ray crystal structure determinations. The chloro complexes, 1 - 4 exhibit fluorescence both in the solid states and in solutions. Surprisingly, 1 - 4 are cytotoxic against breast, prostate, and lung cancer cell lines.
The benzoylation of ethylene oxide by benzoyl chloride in aprotic solvents occurs slowly at 70°, but is catalysed by acids and bases. At ethylene oxide concentrations [graphic omitted]1M the only significant product is 2-chloroethyl benzoate. The hydrogen chloride catalysed reaction is zero order in oxide and obeys the rate equation –d[ethylene oxide]/dt=k2[catalyst][benzoyl chloride]. The hydrogen chloride and excess of oxide lead rapidly to an equivalent quantity of 2-chloroethanol, the latter being acylated by the benzoyl chloride in the slow step. Added 2-chloroethanol also acts as a catalyst and leads to the same rate equation. Catalysis by tetraethylammonium chloride also involves a process zero order in ethylene oxide and a rate equation analogous to that found for catalysis by hydrogen chloride. The reaction orders, the effects of substituent changes in the reactants, and the known reactivities of alkoxide ions suggest a mechanism of benzoylation involving a rapid, initial association between ethylene oxide and the ammonium chloride to give a polar complex, which then attacks the benzoyl chloride in a slow step. Values of ΔS‡ and Ea have been determined. The kinetic from of the pyridine catalysed reaction has also been studied briefly.
Abstract Alcohol-induced structural changes in the acid-denatured Bacillus licheniformis a-amylase (BLA) at pH 2.0 were studied by far-ultra violet circular dichroism, intrinsic, three-dimensional and 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonic acid (ANS) fluorescence, acrylamide quenching and thermal denaturation. All the alcohols used in this study produced partial refolding in the acid-denatured BLA as evident from the increased mean residue ellipticity at 222 nm, increased intrinsic fluorescence and decreased ANS fluorescence. The order of effectiveness of these alcohols to induce a partially folded state of BLA was found to be: 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol/tert-butanol > 1-propanol/2-propanol > 2-chloroethanol > ethanol > methanol. Three-dimensional fluorescence and acrylamide quenching results obtained in the presence of 5.5 M tert-butanol also suggested formation of a partially folded state in the acid-denatured BLA. However, 5.5 M tert-butanol-induced state of BLA showed a non-cooperative thermal transition. All these results suggested formation of a partially folded state of the acid-denatured BLA in the presence of these alcohols. Furthermore, their effectiveness was found to be guided by their chain length, position of methyl groups and presence of the substituents. 
The conformational energy differences have been determined for ethylene glycol, 2- chloroethanol, and 2,2- dichloroethanol in the neat liquid, DMSO, and H20 with Raman spectroscopy. Spectra in the 0-H valence region were utilized to determine the energy difference between interand intramolecularly hydrogen bonded species. It was found that the solvent effect on the relative stabilities of the gauche and trans rotamers of the alcohols differ significantly. The results also indicate that, unlike ethylene glycol, there is significant intramolecular hydrogen bond formation in the halogenated alcohols in the neat liquid phase. Stronger intramolecular hydrogen bond formation was observed in dichloroethanol than in 2-chloroethanol.
Aim To design and synthesize new alamifovir analogs prodrugs.Methods The target compounds were synthesized via chloromethylation,substitution,condensation,alkylation,hydrolization,condensation using 2-chloroethanol as starting material.Results 11 New compounds were synthesized and characterized with 1H-NMR,13C-NMR and MS.In vitro anti-HBV activity evaluation revealed that new alamifovir prodrug 1a is about 100 times more potent than alamifovir.Conclusion The anti-HBV activity of the new prodrug of alamifovir derivatives can be improved by releasing the active molecule more efficiently.
The influence of the structure of aliphatic alcohols on their reactivity with respect to ozone is an area that has remained practically uninvestigated. At the same time, the appropriate data may provide valuable information on the mechanism of this reaction. Here we are reporting on a kinetic study of the interaction of 03 with monohydric aliphatic alcohols (ROH) in the examples of methanol (I), ethanol (II), l-propanol (III), 2-propanol (IV), lbutanol (V), 2-butanol (VI), 2-methyl-l-propanol (VII), 2-chloroethanol (VIII), 1,3-dichloro2-propanol (IX), and l-chloro-2-propanol (X) in solutions of CC14 and H20 at 9-60~
Porous SnO2 nanospheres with high surface areas have been synthesized through a solvothermal method in the absence of any templates. The structure and morphology of the resultant products were characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and nitrogen adsorption–desorption technique. The as-prepared SnO2 porous nanospheres with the diameters ranging from 90–150 nm are composed of small nanocrystals with average sizes of less than 10 nm. Results demonstrated that the formation of porous SnO2 nanospheres is ascribed to etching the center part of the nanospheres. It was found that hydrochloric acid and NaClO played important roles in determining the final morphologies of the porous SnO2 nanospheres. The gas sensing properties of the as-prepared porous SnO2 nanospheres were investigated. By the comparative gas sensing tests, the porous SnO2 nanospheres exhibited a superior gas sensing performance toward ppb level 2-chloroethanol and formaldehyde vapor, implying promising applications in detecting toxic volatile organic compounds (VOCs).
Abstract The quantum yields of formation of hydrated electrons (Φ e− ) and single-strand breaks (Φ ssb ) were determined for poly(C), poly(A) and single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) in deoxygenated aqueous solution at room temperature and pH values around 7 on 248 nm nanosecond laser excitation. In the intensity range I L = (0.5 − 3) × 10 6 W cm −2 and for nucleic acid concentrations of 0.4 mM, Φ ssb was found to increase almost linearly with I L and approaches a saturation value at I L > 5 × 10 6 W cm −2 . The dependence of Φ e− on I L is also linear under comparable conditions. These results imply a quadratic dependence of both the number of single-strand breaks (ssb) and photoelectrons on I L . For I L = (1 − 5) × 10 6 W cm −2 the ratio Φ ssb :Φ e− is 0.4, 0.06 and 0.05 for poly(C), poly(A) and ssDNA, respectively. These values are interpreted as efficiencies of ssb formation per radical cation of the bases. Similar efficiencies have been reported for OH radical-induced ssb formation. It is concluded that, prior to the ssb formation, the radical cations are transformed into neutral successor radicals which are often the same as those produced by reaction of the OH radicals with the base moieties. For poly(C) and poly(A) in N 2 O-saturated solutions at low intensities, Φ ssb is about twice as large as in argon-saturated solutions, indicating that the laser-induced OH radicals react randomly with the macromolecules. Hydrated photoelectrons are not involved in the chemical pathway leading to strand breakage since Φ ssb is not changed on addition to 2-chloroethanol. There is no indication that OH radicals, other than those generated by reaction of photoelectrons with N 2 O, contribute to ssb formation. From the results it can be concluded that the so-called direct effect of DNA damage by absorption of high-energy radiation can lead chemically to the same damage as the indirect effect via OH radicals.
By use of six highly purified exoglycosidases with well-defined specificity, the oligosaccharide units of human plasma beta 2-glycoprotein I (beta 2I) were modified by sequential enzymatic degradation. The released monosaccharides (NeuAc, Gal, GlcNAc, and Man) were quantified, and the carbohydrate compositions of the resulting glycoprotein (gp) derivatives were determined. The gp was found to be both partially sialylated and galactosylated. These findings which are in agreement with earlier reports suggest that the carbohydrate moiety of beta 2I possesses more bi- than tri-antennas, probably three of the former and two of the latter carbohydrate units. Circular dichroic (CD) spectra of native beta 2I and its derivatives were measured in aqueous buffer and 2-chloroethanol (2-CE). Analysis of these spectra for elements of secondary structure showed beta 2I and most of the derivatives to contain predominantly beta-sheet and beta-turn structures. The lack of alpha-helical structures in aqueous buffer was noted. Removal of a large portion of the carbohydrate moiety did not alter the CD spectra or secondary structure of beta 2I in either aqueous buffer or in 2-CE. However, after enzymatic removal of approximately 96% of the carbohydrate moiety, large significant changes in the spectra and secondary structures were observed. In aqueous buffer a shift in the wavelength minimum occurred, accompanied by an increase in the magnitude of the molar ellipticity and the amount of beta-turn, with a reduction in random coil. One-third of the amino acids which were originally in random coil conformation assumed beta-turns after removal of 96% of the carbohydrate moiety.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fluoride ion can be discharged in conjunction with chloride and bromide ions under electrogenerative conditions at catalytic porous platinum electrodes to give dihaloalkanes. The cell C2H4(g), Pt black|KF, KCl (aq, barrier electrolyte)|Pt black, Cl2(g) gave 2-chloroethanol, 1,2-dichloroethane and 1-chloro-2-fluoroethane (I); a similar cell gave 1-bromo-2-fluoroethane (II) and analogous products with a platinum or carbon black anode and fluoride-bromide electrolyte. While the yield of fluorinated compounds is low, they are prepared under very mild conditions. The electrogenerative cell can be operated to yield a variety of halogenated products in addition to (I) and (II).
A method is described for the determination of small quantities of hydrochloric acid in two chlorinated organic solvents (CHCl3 and CCl4). An excess of gaseous ethylene oxide is added to a liquid sample; the 2-chloroethanol formed is then analyzed by gas chromatography. The procedure is simpler and more sensitive in comparison with other conventional methods. It can be modified for other organic solvents.
Comparative binding energy (COMBINE) analysis was conducted for ::: eighteen substrates of the haloalkane dehalogenase from ::: Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10: 1-chlorobutane; ::: 1-chlorohexane; dichloromethane; 1,2-dichloroethane; ::: 1,2-dichloropropane; 2-chloroethanol; epichlorohydrine; ::: 2-chloroacetonitrile, 2-chloroacetamide and their brominated ::: analogs. The purpose of the COMBINE analysis was to identify ::: the amino acid residues determining the substrate specificity ::: of the haloalkane dehalogenase. This knowledge is essential for ::: the tailoring of this enzyme for biotechnological applications. ::: Complexes of the enzyme with these substrates were modeled and ::: then refined by molecular mechanics energy minimization. The ::: intermolecular enzyme-substrate energy was decomposed into ::: residue-wise van der Waals and electrostatic contributions and ::: complemented by surface area dependent and electrostatic ::: desolvation terms. Partial least-squares projection to latent ::: structures analysis was then used to establish relationships ::: between the energy contributions and the experimental apparent ::: dissociation constants. A model containing van der Waals and ::: electrostatic intermolecular interaction energy contributions ::: calculated using the AMBER force field explained 91 % (73 % ::: cross-validated) of the quantitative variance in the apparent ::: dissociation constants. A model based on van der Waals ::: intermolecular contributions from AMBER and electrostatic ::: interactions derived from the Poisson-Boltzmann equation ::: explained 93 % (74 % cross-validated) of the quantitative ::: variance. COMBINE models predicted correctly the change in ::: apparent dissociation constants upon single-point mutation of ::: DhlA for six enzyme-substrate complexes. The amino acid ::: residues contributing most significantly to the substrate ::: specificity of DhlA were identified; they include Asp124, ::: Trp125, Phe164, Phe172, Trp175, Phe222, Pro223 and Leu263. ::: These residues are suitable targets for modification by ::: site-directed mutagenesis.
Oligomeric peptides can be designed which undergo one-dimensional self-assembly in solution to form beta-sheet tapes a single molecule in thickness and micrometers in length.(1) In this paper, we present the first systematic investigation of the size, shape, dynamics, and interactions of beta-sheet tapes formed by a self-assembling 24-residue peptide, K24, in 2-chloroethanol, over a wide range of peptide concentrations c (c: 10(-7)-1 mM), using photon correlation spectroscopy. The tapes behave like semiflexible chains with persistence lengths of several hundred nanometers and much longer contour lengths, even at c approximately 0.1 nM. The polarized q-dependent light-scattering intensity I fits a model of a prolate object with major and minor axes alpha approximately 630 nm and beta approximately 40 nm. This is an unexpected result in view of the previous theoretical predictions that tapelike polymers could form oblate coinlike structures in solution.(2) This experimentally observed behavior is attributed to the pronounced twist and bend of the beta-tapes, which do not allow them to form the coinlike structures, but instead they favor the formation of elongated polymers. At c approximately 10(-2) mM, the tapes are seen to start overlapping and forming networks with unusually large mesh sizes (e.g., ca. 400 nm at 15 mciroM), much larger than those of conventional polymers. With increasing peptide concentration the mesh size decreases and the network becomes a physical gel at c approximately 0.4 mM. These semidilute solutions are characterized by one main relaxation mode associated with the cooperative diffusion of the entangled tape network, and a weaker slower mode, associated with gel cluster formation. The concentration dependence of xi (xi(c) approximately c(-0.34)) is much weaker compared to the expected scaling for Gaussian or swollen chains (xi(c) approximately c(-1) for Gaussian chains, or xi(c) approximately c(-3/4) for swollen ones), but is not inconsistent with the expected scaling for rigid rods. On the basis of the concentration dependencies of the light-scattering intensity I and of the cooperative diffusion coefficient D, the cooperative friction coefficient f(c) is found to display a stronger concentration dependence (f(c) approximately c(1.34)) than in the case of semidilute flexible and semiflexible polymer solutions (f(c) approximately c(0.5)).(3) Thus, we may conclude that the network of entangled tapes approximates in its behavior that of semirigid polymers.
Effective catalysis by the ((/eta/-C/sub 6/H/sub 6/)Rh(/eta/-C/sub 5/EtMe/sub 4/))/sup 2+/(PF/sub 6//sup /minus//)/sub 2/ complex, discovered earlier in the case of methoxydefluorination, occurs during the nucleophilic substitution of a fluorine atom by alkoxy groups in the reactions of fluoroarenes with a wide range of alcohols in the absence of alkalis. By means of fluorobenzene it was established that the accumulation rate of the ethers depends substantially on the structure of the nucleophile. For the case of the production of the compounds C/sub 10/H/sub 21/OC/sub 6/H/sub 5/ and C/sub 16/H/sub 33/-2,4,6-Me/sub 3/C/sub 6/H/sub 2/ it was shown that higher alkyl aryl ethers can be synthesized with yields of 65-70%, calculated on the fluoroarene, and up to 900% calculated on the catalyst. By the synthesis of benzodioxane in the reaction of o-fluorophenol with 2-chloroethanol it was demonstrated that heterocyclic compounds can be obtained if bifunctional substrates and reagents are used.
Circular dichroism spectra of lipophilin (a hydrophobic protein purified from human central nervous system myelin) were analyzed by the method of Chen et al. (1974) to obtain information on its secondary structure in aqueous and lipid environments. When introduced into phosphatidylcholine vesicles by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol, the protein possessed about 75% alpha helix. A new water-soluble form of lipophilin also containing over 70% alpha helix was obtained by a similar dialysis in the absence of lipid. This product had a higher helical content than two other water-soluble preparations derived by dialysis from phenol-acetic acid-urea. Interaction of all three aqueous forms of the protein with lysolecithin micelles resulted in increases in total helical content or in the average length of helical segments. The amount of beta sheet was at a minimum for lipophilin incorporated into vesicles, where the presence of lipid also provided some protection against thermal denaturation.
Acid denaturation of Aspergillus niger glucoamylase was studied using different conformational probes. Both far-UV CD spectral signal (MRE222nm) and tryptophan fluorescence remained unchanged in the pH range, 7.0–3.0 but decreased significantly below pH 3.0, whereas the ANS fluorescence showed a marked increase below pH 1.5. Maximal changes in the MRE222nm value and the ANS fluorescence were noticed at pH 1.0. The acid-denatured state of glucoamylase at pH 1.0 retained a significant amount of secondary structure as reflected from the far-UV CD spectra but showed a deformed tertiary structure with significant exposure of the nonpolar groups as well as the tryptophan residues as revealed by the increased ANS fluorescence, decreased tryptophan fluorescence and three-dimensional fluorescence spectral signals and increase in the Ksv value in acrylamide quenching experiments. The acid-denatured state showed no significant variation in the CD spectral signal throughout the temperature range, 0-100°C. However, a late cooperative transition was observed upon GdnHCl treatment, compared to the native enzyme. All these results suggested that the acid-denatured state of glucoamylase at pH 1.0 represented the molten globule-like state. ::: Different probes such as far- and near-UV CD spectral signals, ANS binding, Trp fluorescence and three-dimensional fluorescence were used to study halogenol- versus alkanol-induced conformational transitions in the acid-denatured state (pH 1.0) of glucoamylase. These alcohols showed significant retrieval of the protein structure, inducing both secondary and tertiary structural changes, as evident from the increase in the -helical ::: III ::: content and decrease in the ANS binding, respectively. However, halogenols were found more competent than alkanols, requiring lesser alcohol concentration to induce similar spectral change. The effectiveness of these alcohols showed the order: HFIP > TFE > 2-chloroethanol for halogenols while tert-butanol > 1-propanol > 2-propanol > ethanol > methanol for alkanols. Both Trp fluorescence and near-UV CD spectra showed anomalous pattern, though the order of effectiveness remained the same as found with the far-UV CD and ANS fluorescence results. Three-dimensional fluorescence results of the acid-denatured state (pH 1.0) of glucoamylase in the presence of 5.5 M tert-butanol agreed well with the data obtained from the far-UV CD and Trp fluorescence. All these results suggested the formation of partially folded states of glucoamylase in the presence of these alcohols, being more effective with halogenols than alkanols. ::: Different spectral probes such as far-UV CD spectral signal, tryptophan fluorescence and ANS fluorescence were employed to study structural changes and stabilizing effect of various polyols i.e. ethylene glycol, glycerol, glucose and trehalose on the native, the acid-denatured and the thermal-denatured states of glucoamylase. Addition of polyols to the incubation mixture led to significant structural changes involving both secondary and tertiary structures in the acid-denatured state of the enzyme as reflected from the increase in the MRE222nm value and altered tryptophan and ANS fluorescence characteristics. On the other hand, thermodynamic analysis in terms of Tm, ΔHvH and ΔG (25˚C) of the thermal denaturation curves obtained with the native glucoamylase in the presence of various polyols, suggested significant increase in the enzyme stability in the presence of glucose, trehalose and glycerol while ethylene glycol destabilized it. The stabilizing effect was found to be higher with glucose followed by trehalose and minimum ::: IV ::: with glycerol. Furthermore, CD and fluorescence spectral characteristics of the thermal-denatured glucoamylase at 71˚C obtained in the absence and the presence of polyols showed greater effectiveness of both glucose and trehalose in inducing native-like secondary and tertiary structures compared to glycerol and ethylene glycol.
Semisynthetic N epsilon- acetimidoglucagon was prepared from the [des- His1 ]analogue by coupling the N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of N alpha- tBoc - Nimidazole -DNP-L-histidine to the peptide in dimethylformamide in the presence of 1-hydroxybenzotriazole. The deprotected, purified product was chemically identical to N epsilon- acetimidoglucagon and equipotent to N epsilon- acetimidoglucagon and native glucagon in its ability to activate adenylate cyclase and displace [125I] iodoglucagon from rat liver plasma membranes. Semisynthetic [ Phe1 ]-, [ Ala1 ]-, and [des- His1 ] glucagons prepared similarly achieved 85, 55, and 35% of the maximal activity and 22, 2, and 6% of the binding potency of N epsilon- acetimidoglucagon . The biological assays indicate that the amino group is involved to a greater extent in transduction than in binding, but the aromatic nature and hydrogen bonding capability of the imidazole ring of histidine-1 are important for both binding and transduction. In circular dichroism studies, all derivatives exhibited increased helicity in 2-chloroethanol. The [ Phe1 ] analogue although less soluble behaved similarly to native glucagon, while the [ Ala1 ] and [des- His1 ] derivatives exhibited an increased helical content in 0.01 N HCl as a result of an increased propensity of these derivatives to self-associate in the absence of 2-chloroethanol. The unexpected conformational changes throughout the molecule may have relevance for the functional activity.
Abstract Activation parameters for each reaction step in the kinetic mechanism of liver alcohol dehydrogenase have been measured for the oxidation of ethanol and the reduction of acetaldehyde. In the oxidation process, the highest enthalpy of activation, 9.7 kcal/mol, occurs for the turnover of the liver alcohol dehydrogenase-NAD(+)-ethanol ternary complex. To investigate if this enthalpy requirement represents a change in the ionization state of ethanol bound in the ternary complex, inhibition of ethanol oxidation was determined using the following series of small, electronegative alcohols with pKa values ranging from 12.37 to 15.5: 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol, 2,2,2-trichloroethanol, 2,2,2-tribromoethanol, 2,2-dichloroethanol, 2,2-difluoroethanol, propargyl alcohol, 3-hydroxypropionitrile, 2-chloroethanol, 2-iodoethanol, 2-methoxyethanol, ethylene glycol, and methanol. The observed inhibition patterns were analyzed according to several kinetic inhibition models; in each case, the best fit model was used to determine the substrate competitive inhibition constant. A plot of the logarithm of these inhibition constants is shown to be dependent on the pKa values of the inhibiting alcohols with a slope approaching -1, indicating that inhibition is controlled by a proton loss from the alcohol. The observed competitive inhibition behavior, coupled with crystallographic studies depicting a direct ligation of an alcohol oxygen to the catalytic zinc ion, indicates that inhibition is controlled by the formation of a zinc-bound alkoxide. Because the inhibiting alcohols are structurally homologous to ethanol, a relationship between the inhibition constant and the inhibiting alcohol's pKa can be derived to show that the pKa of an alcohol bound in a ternary complex is also dependent on its pKa as a free alcohol. Ternary complex pKa values have been determined for ethanol and the inhibiting alcohols.
Abstract Cis - and trans -1,1-dichloroethylene bound to the active site of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 with the production of a Type I difference spectrum and stimulated CO-inhibitable hepatic microsomal NADPH oxidation. Incubation of cis - and trans -1,2-dichloroethylene plus hepatic microsomes, NADPH-generating system-EDTA resulted in the production of measurable levels of 2,2-dichloroethanol and dichloroacetaldehyde but not of 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde or chloroacetic acid and, also, resulted in decreased levels of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 and heme. In addition, dichloroacetic acid was produced from trans -dichloroethylene under these experimental conditions. The omission of any component of the incubation mixture eliminated the above effects, while the inclusion of SKF-525A, metyrapone or CO: O 2 (80, v/v) diminished these effects. The effects of β-naphthoflavone and phenobarbital pretreatment on the values of K s , ΔA max , K m and V mam for the binding and metabolism of the 1,2-dichloroethylenes are reported. The binding and metabolism of the 1,2-dichloroethylenes and the 1,2-dichloroethylene-mediated inactivation of cytochrome P-450 were enhanced per mg of microsomal protein, but generally not per nmole of cytochrome P-450 by prior induction with β-naphthoflavone or phenobarbital. It is concluded that multiple forms of hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 bind and metabolize the 1,2-dichloroethylenes. The role of cytochrome P-450 in the metabolic activation of the dichloroethylenes is considered.
Abstract 1. 1. RNAase was extracted with phenol from aquous buffer solutions and isolated from the phenol phase without losing its activity. By the phenol-water procedure active RNAase can be obtained from pancreas powder as well as from fresh pancreas. 2. 2. RNAase, isolated from its phenol solution does not differ from the native enzyme with respect to optical rotation, viscosity, sedimentation coefficient and paper-electrophoretic properties. In phenol solution RNAase shows an enhanced viscosity in spite of unaltered optical rotation. 3. 3. The heat stability of RNAase in phenol was measured. 4. 4. The results are discussed in comparison with the properties of RNAase in 8 M urea, 2-chloroethanol and with those of reduced RNAase.
Abstract Composite NiO/Al 2 O 3 was prepared by calcination of Ni/Al hydrotalcite for gas sensing materials. Methods of XRD, SEM, TEM, EDS and BET were used to analyze the structure, composition and morphology of the composite oxide. It was found that the sample was composed of crystal NiO and amorphous Al 2 O 3 . Furthermore, the composite NiO/Al 2 O 3 has smaller grain size and larger surface area than that of pure NiO obtained by the same process. In the gas sensing experiments, the sensor based on NiO/Al 2 O 3 showed superior gas sensing response and selectivity to 2-chloroethanol at low temperature. The response (Rg/Ra) of NiO/Al 2 O 3 was 6.8–20 ppm 2-chloroethanol at 160 °C. The role of Al 2 O 3 in the composite was also discussed.
Tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TRCP), a flame-retardant plasticizer used in plastics, polymeric foams, and synthetic fibers, was studied as part of the National Toxicology Program's class study of trisalkyl phosphate flame retardants. Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies were conducted by administering TRCP (approximately 98% pure) in corn oil by gavage to groups of F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice of each sex for 16 days, 16 weeks, or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were performed in Salmonella typhimurium and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. 16-Day Studies: There were no chemical-related deaths, differences in final mean body weight, or histopathological lesions in rats receiving 22 to 350 mg/kg TRCP or in mice receiving 44 to 700 mg/kg TRCP for 12 doses over 16 days. Serum cholinesterase activity in female rats receiving 175 or 350 mg/kg TRCP was reduced slightly (80% of control levels), but enzyme activity in dosed male rats and in mice was similar to that in controls. 16-Week Studies: Rats received 22 to 350 mg/kg TRCP for 16 weeks (female) or 18 weeks (male). Several male and female rats in the 175 or 350 mg/kg dose groups died from chemical toxicity. Final mean body weights of female rats receiving 350 mg/kg were 20% greater than those of controls; final mean body weights of the remaining groups of dosed female rats and dosed male rats were similar. Chemical-related neuronal necrosis occurred in the hippocampus and thalamus of female rats and, to a lesser extent, of male rats. Serum cholinesterase activity was reduced in females receiving 175 or 350 mg/kg TRCP. There were no chemical-related deaths, differences in final mean body weight, or differences in cholinesterase activity in mice receiving 44 to 700 mg/kg TRCP for 16 weeks. Tubule epithelial cells with enlarged nuclei (cytomegaly and karyomegaly) were observed in the kidneys of high-dose (700 mg/kg) male and female mice. 2-Year Studies: The 2-year studies in rats were conducted by administering 0, 44, or 88 mg/kg TRCP to groups of 60 males and females, 5 days per week for up to 104 weeks; 9 or 10 rats of each dose group were evaluated at 66 weeks. The survival of high-dose male and female rats was reduced relative to that of controls. Final mean body weights of surviving rats were similar to those of controls. The principal chemical-related effects occurred in the kidney and brain of dosed rats. Focal hyperplasia of the renal tubule epithelium and renal tubule adenomas were markedly increased in male rats receiving 88 mg/kg TRCP and, to a lesser extent, in female rats (renal tubule hyperplasia, male rats: 0/50; 2/50; 24/50; female rats: 0/50; 3/50; 16/50; renal tubule adenoma, male rats: 1/50; 5/50; 24/50; female rats: 0/50; 2/50; 5/50). Renal tubule carcinomas occurred in one control and one high-dose male rat. Degenerative lesions consisting of gliosis, mineralization, hemorrhage, and/or hemosiderin accumulation occurred in the cerebrum and brain stem of more than 50% of female rats receiving 44 or 88 mg/kg TRCP; similar lesions were seen in only a few dosed males. Slightly increased incidences of thyroid gland follicular cell neoplasms (male rats: 5/50; 14/50; 13/50; female rats: 14/50; 16/50; 20/50) occurred in dosed males and females, but it is uncertain whether these were related to chemical administration. The 2-year studies in mice were conducted by administering 0, 175, or 350 mg/kg TRCP to groups of 60 males and females, 5 days per week for up to 104 weeks; 8 to 10 mice of each sex per dose group were evaluated at 66 weeks. There were no significant differences in survival between dosed and control groups of either sex, and final mean body weights of mice were similar among all groups. The principal chemical-related effects occurred in the kidney, in which nuclear enlargement (karyomegaly) of tubule epithelial cells was present in approximately 80% of high-dose mice. In the original diagnosis, renal tubule adenomas were seen in one control male, one high-dose male, and one low-dose female. A carcinoma was also seen in one high-dose male. In a s seen in one high-dose male. In a subsequent examination of step sections of all the mouse kidneys, adenomas were found in one low-dose male and two high-dose males. The incidences of renal tubule neoplasms in the original and step sections combined were 1/50, 1/50, and 4/50 for males. Female mice receiving TRCP demonstrated a marginally increased incidence of neoplasms (primarily adenomas) of the harderian gland (3/50; 8/50; 7/50); in addition, three harderian gland neoplasms occurred in high-dose female mice evaluated after 66 weeks. Genetic Toxicology: TRCP was not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA100, TA1535, TA1537, or TA98 with or without exogenous metabolic activation (S9), and it tested negative for the induction of chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. TRCP produced an equivocal response in the presence of S9 for the induction of sister chromatid exchanges (SCE) in CHO cells. Conclusions: Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity for male and female F344/N rats receiving tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphate as shown by increased incidences of renal tubule adenomas. Thyroid follicular cell neoplasms and mononuclear cell leukemia in male and female rats may have been related to chemical administration. There was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity for male B6C3F1 mice as shown by a marginally increased incidence of renal tubule cell neoplasms. There was equivocal evidence of carcinogenic activity for female B6C3F1 mice as shown by a marginally increased incidence of harderian gland adenomas. Renal tubule cell hyperplasia in male and female rats and gliosis, hemorrhage, pigmentation (hemosiderin accumulation), and mineralization in the brains of female rats were associated with the administration of tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate. Karyomegaly of renal tubule epithelial cells in male and female mice was also chemical related. Synonyms: 2-chloroethanol phosphate (3:1); tris(b-chloroethyl) phosphate Trade Names: Fyrol CEF; Disflamoll TCA; NIAX flame retardant
Abstract The thermal degradation of mustard gas (ClCH2CH2SCH2CH2Cl, “HD”), with and without 5% added water, is examined. GC/MS, LC/MS and NMR were employed to comprehensively analyze the products. After 75 days at 90°C, 91% HD remains (80% with 5% water). After 40 days at 140°C, 30% HD remains (24% with 5% water) and black “tar” precipitates form. The apparent Ea is 22.4 kcal/mol. Major products include Q (ClCH2CH2SCH2CH2SCH2Cl), 1,2-dichloroethane, polysulfides and 1,4-dithiane. With 5% water, oxygenates such as 1,4-thioxane and 2-chloroethanol are produced as are numerous sulfonium ions, including S-(2-chlorethyl)-1,4-dithianium, a major component of “mustard heels.” The decomposition does not go to completion due to the equilibrium nature of the reaction at these temperatures.
Densities (ρ) and viscosities (η) for the binary mixtures of ethylene glycol with 2-aminoethanol, 2-chloroethanol, 2-ethoxyethanol, benzyl alcohol, pentanol-1, methanol, cyclohexanone, and acetone have been measured over the whole composition range at 293.15 K. The excess volumes and the viscosity deviations were calculated, and the results were fitted to a Redlich−Kister type polynomial relation. The corresponding parameters have been derived. The results were interpreted in terms of specific interactions between the unlike molecules.
Abstract A hitherto unknown β1-glycoprotein was isolated from a subfraction of Cohn Fraction VI of pooled normal human plasma. For the isolation and purification of this very soluble globulin, precipitation with zinc ions at pH 5.8 in the presence of ethanol, chromatography on diethylaminoethyl cellulose at pH 5.0, and gel filtration through Sephadex G-100 were employed. The resulting preparation appeared monodisperse on ultracentrifugation and paper, starch gel, and disc electrophoresis at pH 8.6. The major physichemical and chemical properties of this β1-glycoprotein were determined. The molecular weight was 31,000. The isoelectric and isoionic points of this globulin were found to be at pH 4.4 and 4.9, respectively. The conformations which this protein assumed in pH 5.8 sodium acetate buffer, 50% aqueous 2-chloroethanol, and 7 m urea are completely reversible as judged by optical rotatory dispersion measurements. This β1-glycoprotein contains 30% carbohydrate, consisting of galactose, mannose, fucose, and glucosamine. Most striking is the lack of sialic acid. Its carboxyl-terminal amino acid proved to be asparagine, while the amino-terminal amino acid did not react with Sanger's reagent. Although monodisperse by a series of criteria, this plasma protein resolves into three components on starch gel electrophoresis near its isoelectric point, an observation that was interpreted as being indicative of variants. The apparent content of this glycoprotein in pooled plasma is approximately 2 mg per liter.
Abstract When benzo (a) pyrene is shaken with bovine serum albumin solution, only a very small hydrocarbon fraction is bound to the protein (0.063 mole/mole). In contrast to this direct method, it is possible to trap more than 10 hydrocarbon molecules per albumin molecule by using a binary transient solvent, such as 2-chloroethanol-water. The protein structure appears to be unmodified after the treatment. The absorption and fluorescence spectra of benzo (a) pyrene-bovine serum albumin are not modified. An interpretation is proposed with two binding sites: one at the protein surface with a small binding constant, the other inside the protein and trapping about 10 hydrocarbon molecules.
Abstract Unfolding reactions of chymotrypsin by 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol, 2-chloroethanol and 1-propanol have been investigated by studying the u.v.-difference spectrum of chymotrypsinogen, the viscosity of chymotrypsinogen, and the distortion of the hydrophobic pocket structure by use of the charge-transfer spectrum derived from nitroacetophenyl-chymotrypsin. We determined the mid-points for these parameters, the concentration required to induce a half-change, in order to evaluate the ability of the alcohols to unfold the protein. The ability to produce structural relaxation at hydrophobic clusters, judged from exposure of indole groups, was valued as −F 3 (trifluoroethanol)>−H 2 Cl(chloroethanol)>−H 2 CH 3 (propanol); the ability to cause structural distortion at the hydrophobic pocket, measured by the disappearance of the charge-transfer spectrum, was H 2 Cl⩾−F 3 ⩾-H 2 CH 3 , and that causing whole-molecular unfolding, reflected by a large increase in the reduced viscosity, was -F 3 ,-H 2 C⪢-H 2 CH 3 , among the modified groups. We have proposed a scheme of the unfolding process for the different alcohols on the basis of these mid-points and comparisons among the the parameter profiles. For trifluoroethanol, the scheme of protein unfolding was identical to that for chloroethanol but was quite different from that for propanol, especially in the following respects: (a) structural relaxation at the clusters caused by the halogenoethanols, which was accompanied by the pocket distortion, occurred promptly and in conjunction with whole-molecular unfolding, whereas in the case of propanol the relaxation and distortion occurred gradually and preceded whole-molecular unfolding; (b) whole-molecular unfolding by the halogenoethanol was followed possibly by an intermediate to refolding, but the presence of such an intermediate was not confirmed for propanol. These properties of the halogenoethanols were attributed to polarity of the halogeno group, which affects the protein intrinsic interactions such as hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interaction.
Malononitrile reacts with 2-chloroethanol and 1-chloro-2-propanol (or 2-methyloxirane) in the presence of sodium ethoxide to give 2-amino-3-cyano-4, 5-dihydrofuran (Ia) and 2-amino-3-cyano-5-methyl-4, 5-dihydrofuran (Ib), respectively. The reaction of malononitrile with 2-phenyl-oxirane or 2-chloro-1-phenylethanol gave 2-amino-3-cyano-4 (and 5)-phenyl-4, 5-dihydrofurans (Ic and Id). The 2-benzamido derivatives (IIb-d) of Ib-d were aromatized by treatment with N-bromosuccinimide to give the corresponding furans (IIIb-d).
Spectral changes in the carbonyl vibration band of N,N-dimethylacetamide (DMA) caused by 2-chloroethanol (ClEtOH), 2,3-dichloropropan-1-ol (DCPrOH), and 1,1,1-trichloro-2-methylpropan-2-ol (TCMPrOH) were measured in solutions of carbon tetrachloride to determine the structure of 2:1 complexes between the alcohols and amide. It has been shown that ClEtOH and DCPrOH makes a 2:1 complex (I) in which two alcohol hydroxyls attach directly to the carbonyl oxygen, whereas TCMPrOH makes a 2:1 complex (II) in which the second alcohol hydroxyl attaches to the oxygen of the first hydroxyl forming a hydrogen bond with the carbonyl group. It has been also shown that ethanol forms I with DMA. The frequency shifts upon the formation of I by these alcohols are found to correlate linearly to the proton-donating acidity of the alcohols, which is determined from the frequency shift in the OH vibration band due to the 1:1 complex formation between alcohols and DMA. From the spectral changes of the acetone carbonyl band caused by ClEtOH, it is confirmed that acetone forms I with ClEtOH. 10 references, 5 figures, 1 table.
Summary Background Insulin resistance is highly prevalent in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and to some extent accounts for fibrosis and reducing viral eradication. Activated cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R) signaling has been implicated in the development of phenotypes associated with insulin resistance and steatosis. We investigated the role of the endocannabinoid system in glucose metabolism disorders induced by hepatitis C virus (HCV) replication. Methods Human hepatic stellate cells (HSC; LX-2 cells) were co-cultured with Huh-7.5 cells or Huh-7.5 cells harboring HCV replicon (replicon cells). Endocannabinoid levels were then measured by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. The expression of CB1R and its downstream glucose metabolism genes in hepatocytes were determined by real-time PCR and Western blot. Glucose uptake by hepatocytes and glucose production were measured. Glucose metabolism tests and measurements of HCV RNA levels and nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) levels were taken after treatment with CB1R agonist arachidonyl-2-chloroethanolamide (ACEA) or antagonist AM251. Results Compared to the co-culture with Huh-7.5 cells, the level of 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and the CB1R mRNA and protein levels increased in the co-culture of LX-2 cells with replicon cells. The activation of CB1R decreased AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation, inhibited cell surface expression of glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2), and suppressed cellular glucose uptake; furthermore, it increased cyclic AMP response element-binding protein H (CREBH), then up-regulated phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) genes and down-regulated the glucokinase (GK) gene, thus promoting glucose production. Interferon treatment restored the aforementioned changes. CB1R antagonist improved glucose metabolism disorders by an increase in glucose uptake and a decrease in glucose production, and inhibited HCV replication. Conclusions HCV replication may not only increase the 2-AG content, but may also up-regulate the expression of CB1R of hepatocytes, then change the expression profile of glucose metabolism-related genes, thereby causing glucose metabolism disorders of hepatocytes and promoting HCV replication. Treatment with CB1R antagonist improved glucose metabolism disorders and inhibited viral genome replication.
Apolipoprotein A1 (apoA1) was labelled with the excess of 2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidinyl-N-oxyl-4-(2,4-dichloro-1,3,5- triazinyl-6)-amine at pH 9.8. The products, containing 7.2 (+/- 1) paramagnetic labels per 1 molecule of apoA1, showed spin-spin and dipole-dipole exchange interactions. The ESR spectra of the spin labelled A1 (at 77K) had d1/d values 0.76 (at pH 7.4), 0.59 (in 3 M NaCl), 0.55 (in 3 M guanidinium hydrochloride), 0.44 (in 40% 2-chloroethanol). Micellar complexes of spin labelled apoA1/DMPC (1 : 20 mol/mol and 1 : 190 mol/mol) and HDL containing spin labelled apoA1 were prepared. Comparison of ESR spectra at 77 K showed that apoA1 structure varies in the complexes with different stoichiometry and in spin labelled HDL. These data show the importance of hydrophobic protein-protein interactions for the structure of HDL and synthetic complexes of apoA1 with phosphatidyl choline.
With the pure bacterial cultures Ancylobacter aquaticus AD20 and AD25, Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, and Pseudomonas sp. strain AD1, Monod kinetics was observed during growth in chemostat cultures on 1,2-dichloroethane (AD20, AD25, and GJ10), 2-chloroethanol (AD20 and GJ10), and 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol (AD1). Both the Michaelis-Menten constants (K(m)) of the first catabolic (dehalogenating) enzyme and the Monod half-saturation constants (K(s)) followed the order 2-chloroethanol, 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol, epichlorohydrin, and 1,2-dichloroethane. The K(s) values of strains GJ10, AD20, and AD25 for 1,2-dichloroethane were 260, 222, and 24 muM, respectively. The low K(s) value of strain AD25 was correlated with a higher haloalkane dehalogenase content of this bacterium. The growth rates of strains AD20 and GJ10 in continuous cultures on 1,2-dichloroethane were higher than the rates predicted from the kinetics of the haloalkane dehalogenase and the concentration of the enzyme in the cells. The results indicate that the efficiency of chlorinated compound removal is indeed influenced by the kinetic properties and cellular content of the first catabolic enzyme. The cell envelope did not seem to act as a barrier for permeation of 1,2-dichloroethane.
A convenient synthesis of optically active 3-morpholinecarboxylic acid and its thio analogue, tetrahydro-2H-1,4-thiazine-3-carboxylic acid, has been developed. These intermediates were obtained by reaction of benzyl (S)-N-benzyloxycarbonyl-2-aziridinecarboxylate and its enantiomer with 2-chloroethanol or 2-chloroethanethiol, respectively.
Abstract Brain edema caused by subacute poisoning with 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) has gained much attention during recent years, but its underlying mechanism is poorly understood. As an intermediate metabolite of 1,2-DCE in vivo, 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) can be transformed into chloroacetaldehyde and reactive oxygen species (ROS) through cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) mediated metabolism. In previous studies, it was found that CYP2E1 expression is enhanced in the brain of mice treated with 1,2-DCE. This study was designed to verify the roles of CYP2E1 overexpression in 2-CE induced cytotoxicity in rat astrocytes, and the contribution of specific signaling molecules to the upregulation of CYP2E1 expression caused by 2-CE. The results of this study demonstrate that treatment with 2-CE can enhance CYP2E1 protein and mRNA levels, cause an increase in ROS and MDA levels, and higher percentages of apoptotic cells in rat astrocytes. Pretreatment with either diallyl sulfide or vitamin C, the inhibitor of CYP2E1 or scavenger of ROS, respectively, can suppress the levels of CYP2E1 expression, ROS and MDA, ameliorate cell apoptosis, and attenuate phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in these cells. Additionally, pretreatment with the inhibitor of either ERK1/2 or transcriptional factor specificity protein 1 (SP1) can suppress the CYP2E1 expression, and alleviate the oxidative damage caused to these cells. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that CYP2E1 overexpression plays a crucial role in 2-CE induced oxidative damage of rat astrocytes, and that CYP2E1 expression is upregulated partially through the activation of the ERK1/2 and SP1 signaling pathways by ROS generated during CYP2E1-mediated 2-CE metabolism. This study provides novel information that can be used in elucidating the mechanism by which 1,2-DCE induces brain edema.
With the pure bacterial cultures Ancylobacter aquaticus AD20 and AD25, Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ1O, and Pseudomonas sp. strain AD1, Monod kinetics was observed during growth in chemostat cultures on 1,2-dichloroethane (AD20, AD25, and GJ1O), 2-chloroethanol (AD20 and GJ10), and 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol (AD1). Both the Michaelis-Menten constants (Ki) of the first catabolic (dehalogenating) enzyme and the Monod half-saturation constants (Ks) followed the order 2-chloroethanol, 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol, epichlorohydrin, and 1,2-dichloroethane. The Ks values of strains GJ10, AD20, and AD25 for 1,2-dichloroethane were 260, 222, and 24 ,M, respectively. The low Ks value of strain AD25 was correlated with a higher haloalkane dehalogenase content of this bacterium. The growth rates of strains AD20 and GJ10 in continuous cultures on 1,2-dichloroethane were higher than the rates predicted from the kinetics of the haloalkane dehalogenase and the concentration of the enzyme in the cells. The results indicate that the efficiency of chlorinated compound removal is indeed influenced by the kinetic properties and cellular content of the first catabolic enzyme. The cell envelope did not seem to act as a barrier for permeation of 1,2-dichloroethane.
The relative rate of CH bond activation by the Pt(II) ion decreased in the order HCH2CH3 > HCH2CH2OH > HCH(OH)CH3. The platinum(II)-ethylene complex, [PtCl3(C2H4)]−1, 1, was the key intermediate in the oxidation of ethane, ethanol, and diethyl ether to 1,2-ethanediol by platinum(II) in aqueous medium. In particular, the intermediary of 1 in the oxidation of ethanol to 1,2-ethanediol and 2-chloroethanol was verified through labelling studies. In D2O, 1, upon oxidation with one of a number of oxidants, converted to [PtCl5(CH2CH2OD)]2−, 2. 2 in turn decomposed to a mixture of 1,2-ethanediol and 2-chloroethanol on heating. The rate conversion of 1 was a function of pH, the anions present, and the oxidant used. While the conversion of 1 to 2 involved a nucleophilic attack by water for hydroxide ion), such a step was not observed in the absence of an oxidant. On basic D2O, the sequential replacement of Cl− by OD− in 1 occurred to successively form [PtCl2(OD)(C2H4)]−, [PtCl(OD)2(C2H4)]− and [Pt(OD)3(C2H4)]−. The process was reversed upon acidification. The species [PtCl5(CH2CHO)]2−, 3, appeared to be the source for the small quantities of hydroxy- and/ or chloroacetaldehyde formed during the oxidation of 1. 3 was synthesized independently by the reaction of acetaldehyde with a mixture of PtCl42−, and PtCl62− in aqueous medium. When 1 was oxidized by Cl2 in CD3OD solution, the principal product was [PtCl5(CH2CO2D)]2− 4, when a small amount of water was present, and CD3OCH2CH2OCD3 in the absence of water.
Functional selectivity and stereospecificity of the intermolecular dehydration between alcohols and phthalimide (III) by means of diethyl azodicarboxylate (I) and triphenylphosphine (II) was examined. The reaction of allyl alcohol, 2-chloroethanol or (±)-ethyl lactate with I, II, and III led to the formation of corresponding N-alkylphthalimide. The reaction was further applied to the synthesis of esters of N-phthaloyl-α-amino acid. (S)-(−)-ethyl 2-hydroxy-3-phenylpropionate was converted into (R)-(+)-N-phthaloylphenylalanine ethyl ester with high stereospecificity.
Dithio-diglycol agent has been synthesized by the reaction of sulfur, 2-chloroethanol and sodium sulfide. The results demonstrate that the yield of dithio-diglycol in the agent is 88.5% under the optimism conditions: solvent is ethanol, amount of Na 2S is 187mmol, the molar ratio of chlorocarbinol, sulfur and sodium sulfide is 1.8 ∶1.2 ∶1.0, refluxing time is 30min. The disulfurether is staple and the content of sulphur of sulfurether is 39.54%. The lubrication property investigation of the agent showed that although its antiwear property is unsatisfactory, its load-carrying capacity is very high(P B=804N).
Abstract 1-Vinyluracil and 1-vinylthymine, monomers for nucleic acid bases attached functional polymers, were synthesized for the first time from uracil and thymine in 3 steps in 54% and 50% overall yields using the Mitsunobu reactions of 2a and 2b with 2-chloroethanol as a key step.
In technology,on the basis of the theory of"similarity and intermiscibility"and refer to the organic conception diagram. We are by means of 2-chloroethanol water solution in charge of traditional water solution for absorbing chloring and compare under different temperature and concentration and attaining optimum condition. Not only improving the solubility of chlorine,but also inceasing prodution of 2-chloroethanol,the yield can increasing 40 percent.
Sterile solutions were used to prepare erythrocyte membranes from freshly drawn human blood by methods detailed by Dodge et al. (7), Marchesi et al. (8), or Steck et al. (9). Stock suspensions of these membrane preparations were maintained at 4°C and were used as long as they were responsive to HGH. Protein concentrations of the membrane preparations were determined from the A2m of 2-chloroethanol solutions prepared from measured amounts of the original membrane suspension (10). Membranes were counted under a phasecontrast microscope in a Petroff-Hauser counter. HGH was prepared from human pituitaries obtained at autopsies by the method of Saxena and Henneman (11), and contained one major and two minor bands by polyacrylamide disc electrophoresis. BGH was prepared in this laboratory by a modification (12) of the method of Dellacha and Sonenberg (13), and was homogeneous by polyacrylamide disc electrophoresis. The biologically active fragment (A-II) obtained from a tryptic digest of BGH was prepared by the method of Yamasaki et al. (14) . [This A-II fragment of molecular weight 5000 and 37 amino acids was homogeneous by polyacrylamide disc electrophoresis, gel filtration, and sedimentation equilibrium (14) .] All other reagents were of analytic grade.
The pharmaceutical usefulness of natural, crystalline cyclodextrins can be improved by chemical conversions into water-soluble, amorphous mixtures of their derivatives. Reaction of beta-cyclodextrin with 2-chloroethanol, 3-chloropropanol, isobutylene oxide, or iodoacetamide yielded the title compounds. Distributions of the substitution degree were close to symmetrical and relatively narrow. The average substitution degrees increased with the amount of alkylating reagent used in the preparation. The number of components (half-width of distribution) increased with increasing average substitution degree. Further, distributions of the substitution degree were measured in glucose derivatives after hydrolysis of 2-hydroxyethyl, 2-hydroxypropyl, and 2-hydroxyisobutyl-beta-cyclodextrin. The results show an uneven distribution of substituents around the cyclodextrins, suggesting that growth of oligoglycol side chains and/or clustering of substituents on one glucose residue occurs.
The high brightness of the Australian synchrotron allowed for detailed spectra to be collected at high resolution (0.00096 cm–1) in the vicinity of the a/b/c-type ν19 band of 2-chloroethanol, which involves O–H torsional motion about the C–O bond. A rovibrational analysis was performed for both chlorine isotopologues in the ν19 fundamental (centered at ∼344 cm–1) which involved the assignment of 7153 lines (J ≤ 90, Ka ≤ 41). A global fit to these lines in addition to 119 microwave lines (J ≤ 29, Ka ≤ 11) led to the determination of spectroscopic constants up to the sextic level in both the ground and excited states using Watson’s A-reduction Hamiltonian. The constants agree well with those calculated at the anharmonic MP2/cc-pVTZ level and allow for spectroscopically accurate predictions of rotational transitions in the ground vibrational state to be made over a broad range of rotational energies (TR < 1000 K). We explored the role that 2-chloroethanol might play in interstellar molecular clouds by perfor...
Glycomimetic molecules can be used to antagonize the action of carbohydrate-binding proteins (lectins) involved in biological processes of high relevance for human and plant disease. In this paper we describe the derivatization with appropriate linkers of a previously described glycomimetic containing an α-fucosyl amide anchor that is known to act as antagonist of the dendritic cell lectin DC-SIGN. Key steps of the functionalization were the stereoselective epoxidation of an intermediate β-amino-cyclohexene-carboxylic acid derivative, followed by regioselective opening with 2-chloroethanol. Introduction of the linker does not alter the DC-SIGN binding properties of the molecule, as shown by Surface Plasmon Resonance and NMR studies. Whereas the fucose-based anchor allows the mimic to interact efficiently with fucose-binding lectins, the linker could also be exploited for the synthesis of glycodendrimers, as well as for the study of ligand interactions with commercially available lectins by array technology. In particular, a tetravalent fucosylated dendrimer was obtained that displayed a low-micromolar range of activity against DC-SIGN. Additionally, screening of the ligand against lectins with common fucose specificity in an array format allowed the lectin from the bacterium Ralstonia solanacearum (RSL) to be identified as a potential target protein and suggested that even simple glycomimetic structures can attain a significant amount of selectivity among lectins with analogous specificity.
D a t a on physical properties of mixtures as a function of composition and temperature are valuable in correlating other properties and in analytical studies. In this and subsequent investigations an attempt w a s made to develop experimental data for a number of systems on which generalized correlations could be developed relating Composition and the property evaluated based on the properties of the pure components, Thus, eight binary systems having a rather wide range of properties (particularly interfacial tension) and in most cases, representing nonideal liquid mixtures were studied. The systems were: 1-propanol-water; toluene-n-octane; water-1-butanol; acetone-1-butanol; benzene-2-chloroethanol; carbon tetrachloride-1-propanol; ethyl alcohol-1,4-dioxane; and methanol-l,4-dioxane. The properties determined were: refractive index vs. composition, liquid density vs. composition and temperature, interfacial tension a t the boiling point and a t 3OoC. as a function of composition, liquid viscosity as a function of temperature and composition, and vapor viscosity a s a function of temperature and composition. Because of the peculiar variation of interfacial tension and viscosity with composition a t the boiling point, no general correlations have been developed. More data on both binary and ternary systems are necessary.
The secondary structure of a hydrophobic myelin protein (lipophilin), reconstituted with dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine or dimyristoylphosphatidylglycerol, was investigated by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy. Protein infrared spectra in the amide I region were analyzed quantitatively using resolution enhancement and band fitting procedures. Lipophilin in a phospholipid environment adopts a highly ordered secondary structure which at room temperature consists predominantly of alpha-helix (approximately 55%) and beta-type conformations (36%). The secondary structure of the protein is not affected by the lipid gel to liquid crystalline phase transition. Heating of the lipid-protein complex above approximately 35 degrees C results in a gradual decrease in alpha-helical content, accompanied by an increase in the amount of beta-structures. Lipophilin dissolved in 2-chloroethanol is, compared to the protein in a lipid environment, richer in the alpha-helical conformation but still contains a sizable amount of beta-structure.
Abstract The trioctylamine (TOA) with kerosene as a diluent was used to separate 2-chloroethanol from aqueous hydrochloride acid solution. The stoichiometry of complex data was studied with infrared spectroscopic and the result shows that the ratio of 2-chloroethanol to amine in the complex was 1:2. The equilibrium constant was assumed to be 4.05 × 105. Effects of temperature, equilibrium pH, TOA concentration, organic phase to aqueous (O/A) phase ratio and contact time on extraction yield of 2-chloroethanol were investigated. The results show that extraction yield can reach 58.2% under the optimum conditions.
This research was comprised of two parts: quantitative analyses, and confirmatory test. In the quantitative analyses, five classes of fruits and vegetables comprising 10 individual commodities were fortified with triclopyr herbicide at 0.4 and 0.8 ppm level. Triclopyr was extracted from the matrices and derivatized separately to 2-chloroethylene ester with 2-chloroethanol-BCl3 and methyl ester with diazomethane. The esters were then quantitated by GC-ECD and GC-NPD. The GC-ECD recoveries for 2-chloroethylene ester were 100.0% and 100.7% at 0.4 ppm and 0.8 ppm fortification levels, respectively, whereas methyl ester recovery was 103.9% at 0.4 ppm fortification level. Similarly, the GC-NPD recoveries for 2-chloroethylene ester were 99.0% and 97.9% at 0.4 ppm and 0.8 ppm fortification levels respectively, whereas methyl ester recovery was 102.0% at 0.4 ppm fortification level. In the confirmatory test, the 2-chloroethylene ester was introduced into a GC-ion trap. The EI mass spectrum was then interpreted based on the criteria of molecular ion, isotopes, base ion, characteristic ions and the nitrogen rule. Compared to existing methods, this method has reduced partition solvents to nearly one-tenth. In addition, this method proved to be simple, fast, safe and accurate.
Hydroxyl-containing ionic liquids were synthesized by quaternization of 1,2-dimethyl-1H-imidazole, N-methylpyrrolidine, and pyridine with 2-chloroethanol or 6-chlorohexan-1-ol, followed by exchange of chloride ion for bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)azanide, and their properties were studied.
Abstract ( A new standardized method for determination of ethylene oxide .) This paper describes a new standardized method for the chemical transformation of 2-chloroethanol into ethylene oxide. The reaction is developed in a miniatured glass stopped vial. The recovery is about 60%. The limit of detection was found to be 0.020 μ mol l −1 . Ethylene oxide was determined by a classical head-space gas chromatographic method establishing a linearity of r = 0.999, good reproducibility and a relative standard deviation of 3.7%.
The new metallophthalocyanine (Zn, Cu, Ni, Co) polymers containing 4,6,10,12,16,18,22,24-octakis(2-hydroxyethoxy)-2,8,14,20-tetramethylresorcinarene are described. Firstly, 4,6,10,12,16,18,22,24-octakis(2-hydroxyethoxy)-2,8,14,20-tetramethylresorcinarene compound (1) was synthesized by treating resorcinarene with 2-chloroethanol under microwave irradiation. Then, tetrakis(4,5-bis(2-hydroxyethoxy))phthalonitrile substituted resorcinarene compound (2) and octakis(4-(2-hydroxyethoxy))phthalonitrile substituted resorcinarene compound (3) were synthesized by treating compound (1) with 4,5-dichloro-1,2-dicyanobenzene and 4-nitro-1,2-dicyanobenzene, respectively, under microwave irradiation. The chlorides Cu (II), Ni (II), Co (II), were employed in order to synthesize the corresponding metallophthalocyanine polymers (2b–d and 3b–d) and Zn(CH3COO)2 was used for the preparation of zinc phthalocyanine polymers (2a and 3a). All products were synthesized by microwave-assisted synthesis method. The structures were characterized by elemental analyses, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, UV–Vis and FTIR spectroscopy.
The effects of alcohols on human glycophorin were monitored by circular dichroism, solvent perturbation of absorption spectra, fluorescence of 8-anilino-1-naphthalene sulfonate, and sedimentation equilibrium in the ultracentrifuge. Both ethanol and 2-chloroethanol gradually increase the alpha helix in glycophorin and its sialic acid free counterpart. The same alcohols do not cause a cooperative transition in the structure of the polypeptide chain of glycophorin. Other alcohols also increase the alpha-helix content of glycophorin. Binding of ANS to glycophorin is abolished at relatively low alcohol concentrations. Ethanol at 60% (v/v) reduces the molecular weight ratio of glycophorin and at the same time increases the exposure of tyrosine residues to solvent. These observations indicate a complex mechanism of interaction of weakly protic solvents with this stable membrane protein.
An i.r. study in the hydroxyl stretching region of three chloroalcohols [Cl—(CH2)n—OH: n= 2, 3, 4] in CCl4 solutions (concentrations up to 0.12 mol dm–3) has been carried out in the temperature range 298–338 K. Apparent integrated intensities were measured and used to evaluate the equilibrium between free and intramolecularly hydrogen-bonded OH groups in dilute solution. The study revealed that ≈ 68 % of 2-chloroethanol molecules and ≈ 8 % of 3-chloropropanol molecules were present in the intramolecular H-bonded from (ΔH°INTRA ⇌ FREE= 15.3 and 26.1 kJ mol–1, respectively). 4-Chlorobutanol, however, did not show intramolecular H-bonding in solution.Association behaviour of these chloroalcohols was analysed by considering various possible structures (open/cyclic n-mers) for the species absorbing at ≈ 3500 cm–1. A cyclic four-membered ring dimer satisfactorily explained the observed results (ΔH°DIMER ⇌ FREE= 35.9, 33.95 and 16.9 kJ mol–1, respectively, for n= 2, 3 and 4) though in 2-chloroethanol a ten-membered ring dimer involving participation of chlorine is also possible. The tendency of chloroalcohols to associate was found to be low compared with simple alcohols and alkoxyalcohols and is explained by the large atomic size of chlorine.
Dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) is a synthetic compound that is not known to be formed naturally. Nevertheless, several pure microbial cultures are able to use it as a sole carbon source for growth. Degradation of 1,2-DCE proceeds via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. The genes encoding the enzymes responsible for the conversion of 1,2-DCE to glycolic acid have been isolated. The haloalkane dehalogenase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase are plasmid encoded. Two other enzymes, the alcohol dehydrogenase and the haloacid dehalogenase, are chromosomally encoded. Sequence analysis indicates that the haloacid dehalogenase belongs to the L-specific 2-chloroproprionic acid dehalogenases. From the three-dimensional structure and sequence similarities, the haloalkane dehalogenase appears to be a member of the α/β hydrolase fold hydrolytic enzymes, of which several are involved in the degradation of aromatic and aliphatic xenobiotic compounds.
In a previous study we have shown that snake venom 5'-nucleotide phosphodiesterase (SVP) catalyzes methanol-esterification reactions [García-Díaz, M., Avalos, M. & Cameselle, J. C. (1991) Eur. J. Biochem. 196, 451-457]. Now we have demonstrated that SVP catalyzes AMP transfer from ATP to propanol, ethanol, methanol, ethylene glycol, glycerol, 2-chloroethanol or 2,2-dichloroethanol. The AMP-O-alkyl ester products were identified by HPLC, enzyme analysis, ultraviolet and NMR spectroscopy. Those results show the potential of SVP as a tool to prepare 5'-nucleotide esters and agree with the formation of a covalent 5'-nucleotidyl-SVP intermediate susceptible to nucleophilic attack by short-chain (poly)alcohols as acceptors alternative to water. To test the kinetic influence of the solvent nucleophile in SVP mechanisms, initial rates of ATP solvolysis were assayed in different water/alcohol mixtures. Relatively high alcohol concentrations inactivated SVP but lower concentrations gave proportional rates of alcoholysis. An efficiency parameter (EA), defined as the ratio of the mole fraction of AMP-O-alkyl ester as a product to that of alcohol as an acceptor in water/alcohol mixtures, made possible the comparison of alcohols and water as AMP acceptors at low concentrations, as it could be reasoned that EA = 1 for water. Rates of hydrolysis (VH) of substrates yielding AMP and different leaving groups were also assayed. The higher EA and VH values corresponded, respectively, to those acceptors and leaving-group conjugate acids with lower pKa and higher polar-substituent constants (sigma*). The results support the occurrence of general acid-base catalysis in the active center of SVP and the identification of rate-limiting steps. A model is proposed for the mechanisms of SVP-catalyzed hydrolysis and alcoholysis which accounts for the influence of the acid-base properties of alcohols on the kinetic profile of SVP reaction sequences.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a commonly used solvent in industry; unfortunately, severe hypotension is one of main toxic signs during intoxication. Calcium ion modulation is considered to be an important role of vasorelaxation. The aim of this study is to evaluate either 2-CE or its main metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), possible cause of hypotension, by using isolated rat aortic rings. Results revealed that 2-CE caused a weakly relaxation in the phenylephrine (PE) pre-induced endothelium-intact aortic rings. However, its metabolite, CAA induced vasorelaxation and showed dose dependency in endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings. The half inhibitory concentration (IC50 )o f2 -CE exceeded 50 mM; meanwhile, the IC50 values of CAA in the endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings were 3.3 and 2.7 mM, respectively. The CAA-induced relaxation could be significantly attenuated by adding calcium (CaCl2 )a nd various Ca 2+ channel blockers, dantrolene, nifedipine, and NiCl2 .N ifedipine presents the most strong inhibition effect among the calcium blockers. In conclusion, it is suggested that the hypotension effect of 2-CE intoxicated cases may be mainly mediated by its metabolite CAA, and calcium channels are partially involved inducing the vasorelaxation.
Densities (ρ), speeds of sound (u), and viscosities (η) are reported for binary mixtures of 2-methylaniline with substituted ethanols (2-phenylethanol, 2-chloroethanol and 2-aminoethanol) over the entire composition range of mole fraction at T = (303.15–318.15) K and at atmospheric pressure, 0.1 MPa. The excess molar volume, excess isentropic compressibility and deviation in viscosity are calculated from the corresponding experimental densities, speeds of sound and viscosities. The excess properties are correlated using the Redlich–Kister polynomial smoothing equation. Excess partial molar volumes and excess partial molar isentropic compressibilities were calculated for all the binary systems throughout the composition range and also at infinite dilution. The variations in these properties with composition, for all the binary mixtures, suggest that loss of dipolar association, difference in size and shape of the component molecules, dipole–dipole interaction and hydrogen bonding between molecules of 2-methylaniline with 2-phenylethanol, 2-chloroethanol and 2-aminoethanol are involved.
Abstract N -nonanoyl vanillylamide ( 1 ) is a synthetic substitute of capsaicin ( 2 ), a pungent principle in red pepper. 1 was reacted with succinic anhydride, 3-chloro-1,2-propanediol, sodium chloroacetate, and 2-chloroethanol to furnish N -nonanoyl vanillylamide-4-succinyl ester ( 3 ), N -nonanoyl vanillylamide-4-glyceryl ether ( 4 ), sodium N -nonanoyl vanillylamide-4- O -acetate ( 5 ) and N -nonanoyl vanillylamide-4-glycol ether ( 6 ), respectively. A 3,4-methylenedioxy derivative of 1 , N -nonanoyl piperonylamide ( 7 ), was synthesized from piperonylamine HCl and nonanoyl chloride. The ether analogues 4–6 all demonstrated marked antinociceptive and hypotensive effects without producing any overt irritation. In addition, these compounds revealed no untoward vagus reflex or transient hypertensive effect as previously found in 1 or 2 .
The three main components YI, YII, and Z of clupeine, a protamine from herring, have been purified and characterized. The conformational preferences of clupeines have been examined as a funciton of pH, temperature, added salts, and presence of structure-disrupting agents and helix-supporting solvents using circular dichroism. It was found that these small basic proteins assume predominantly an unordered conformation in aqueous solution. Addition of counter ions, in particular perchlorate, and 2-chloroethanol induces in various amounts the onset of the right-handed alpha-helical conformation. Urea favors the statistical coil state. It was also demonstrated that in the 0.1--4.0 . 10(-1) M range, in contrast to clupeines YI and Z, the circular dichroic properties of the YII component do not seem to be sensitive to the addition of mono- and diphosphate.
Dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) is a synthetic compound that is not known to be formed naturally. Nevertheless, several pure microbial cultures are able to use it as a sole carbon source for growth. Degradation of 1,2-DCE proceeds via 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. The genes encoding the enzymes responsible for the conversion of 1,2-DCE to glycolic acid have been isolated. The haloalkane dehalogenase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase are plasmid encoded. Two other enzymes, the alcohol dehydrogenase and the haloacid dehalogenase, are chromosomally encoded. Sequence analysis indicates that the haloacid dehalogenase belongs to the L-specific 2-chloroproprionic acid dehalogenases. From the three-dimensional structure and sequence similarities, the haloalkane dehalogenase appears to be a member of the ce//3 hydrolase fold hydrolytic enzymes, of which several are involved in the degradation of aromatic and aliphatic xenobiotic compounds.
The catabolic pathway has been resolved with Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 and strains of Ancylobacteraquaticus ; Van den Wijngaard et al. 1992) , which led to the establishment of the route shown in Fig. 1 . The first step is the hydrolytic conversion of 1,2-DCE to 2-chloroethanol. This intermediate is oxidized to chloroacetaldehyde by a periplasmic alcohol dehydrogenase. Further oxidation by an NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase yields chloroacetate, which is cleaved by a second hydrolytic dehalogenase to glycolate.
Both dehalogenases are produced constitutively, whereas the alcohol dehydrogenase and the aldehyde dehydrogenase are inducible (Janssen et al. , 1987a ; Van den Wijngaard et al. 1992) . The haloalkane dehalogenase gene (dhlA) and a chloroacetalde- 2-chloroethanol 1,2-dichloroethane, 2-chloroethanol, chloroacetic acid 2-chloroethanol 1,2-dichloroethane, 2-chloroethanol, 1,3-dichloroethane, 1-chlorobutane 1,2-dichloroethane 2-chloroethanot 1,2-dichloroetbane, 2, chloroethanol, 2-chloroethylvinylether Stucki et al, 1983a Stacki et al. 1983b Janssen et al. 1984 Janssen et al. 1984 Seholtz et aL 1987 Strotmann et al. 1990 Van den Wijngaard et al. 1992 Wijngaard et al. , 1993a CHsCI-CH=CI hyde dehydrogenase gene are plasmid encoded in X. autotrophicus GJ 10 (Tardif et al. 1991; van der Ploeg et al. 1994) . A similar plasmid is detected in A. aquaticus strains isolated on 1,2-DCE (Van der Ploeg JR, unpublished observation). The haloalkane dehalogenase, the modified aldehyde dehydrogenase, and the chloroacetate dehalogenase are only produced by strains of Xanthobacter that utilize 1,2-DCE (Janssen et al. 1987; Tardif et al. 1991) . Another route for 1,2-DCE degradation may be operative in a Pseudomonas strain that utilizes 1,2-DCE (Stucki et al. 1983a) . No dehalogenase activity with 1,2-DCE was detected in this organism, and it was proposed that the first catabolic step is catalyzed by an oxygenase.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a commonly used solvent in industry; unfortunately, severe hypotension is one of main toxic signs during intoxication. Calcium ion modulation is considered to be an important role of vasorelaxation. The aim of this study is to evaluate either 2-CE or its main metabolite, chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), possible cause of hypotension, by using isolated rat aortic rings. Results revealed that 2-CE caused a weakly relaxation in the phenylephrine (PE) pre-induced endothelium-intact aortic rings. However, its metabolite, CAA induced vasorelaxation and showed dose dependency in endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings. The half inhibitory concentration (IC 50 ) of 2-CE exceeded 50 mM; meanwhile, the IC 50 values of CAA in the endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings were 3.3 and 2.7 mM, respectively. The CAA-induced relaxation could be significantly attenuated by adding calcium (CaCl 2 ) and various Ca 2+ channel blockers, dantrolene, nifedipine, and NiCl 2 . Nifedipine presents the most strong inhibition effect among the calcium blockers. In conclusion, it is suggested that the hypotension effect of 2-CE intoxicated cases may be mainly mediated by its metabolite CAA, and calcium channels are partially involved inducing the vasorelaxation.
Abstract Heat transfer in boiling liquid mixtures of water and methylethylketone has been measured throughout the ranges of convection and nucleate boiling at atmospheric pressure [43]. With some mixtures a considerably higher maximum heat flux in nucleate boiling has been found than in the case of water. This higher heat flux is obtained at the same temperature of the heating surface as for water, or alternatively, the same heat flux is obtained at a lower surface temperature. For mixtures of water with acetone, methylethylketone, the lower aliphatic alcohols and ethyleneglycol respectively, the maximum heat flux in nucleate boiling has been studied as a function of concentration. In addition, mixtures consisting of two organic lqiuids, i.e. dioxane-methanol and 2-chloroethanol—di-iso-propylether, were investigated. In all mixtures a maximum value of the maximum heat flux for nucleate boiling occurs at a certain concentration. The higher the number of carbon atoms in the alcohol and ketone series, the more this maximum is shifted towards lower concentrations of the organic component. A maximum of 3 1 2 times the value for water has been observed in the system water—1-pentanol. Partial miscibility has no influence on the continuity of the maximum heat transfer curve. The occurrence of the maximum is qualitatively explained by the higher dew point of the vapour formed by flash vaporization, as compared with the boiling point of the original liqiud mixture. At a certain concentration, the dew point of the vapour bubbles may become equal to the temperature of the surrounding superheated liquid, and in that case the vapour bubbles grow only by diffusional mass transfer. The average size of the bubbles leaving the heating surface is then smaller, and the maximum heat transfer is higher. For mixtures of water and alcohols, it has been calculated that 1 mole % of the liquid is immediately vaporized at the surface. For water—acetone and water—methylethylketone, only 0·3 and 0·1 mole % direct vaporization respectively is found.
9(10)-Carboxystearic acid and its mono- and dimethyl esters were esterified and transesterified with 1-butanol, 2-methoxyethanol, 2-chloroethanol, 2,2-dimethylpentanol, 2-ethylhexanol and 1-octanol. Rate studies for the sulfuric acid-catalyzed esterification of 9(10)-carboxystearic acid to alkyl 9(10)-carboxystearate and alkyl 9(10)-carboalkoxystearate indicate than on an average the terminal carboxyl is approximately 26–27 times more reactive than the branched carboxyl group. Esterification is highly dependent on catalyst concentration. Steric hindrance in 2,2-dimethylpentanol and the electrophilic character of 2-methoxyethanol and 2-chloroethanol markedly retard the rate. In addition to the expected diesters, 2-chloroethanol yields esters containing extra-O-CH2CH2- groups. The rate of transesterification of the terminal ester group of mono- and dimethyl esters of 9(10)-carboxystearic acid is about two times faster than the rate of esterification of the branched carboxyl group. Transesterification of the branched 9(10)-ester group is extremely slow.
5-Amino-1-hydroxyethylpyrazole, an intermediate of cefoselis sulfate was synthesized from 2-chloroethanol and hydrazine hydrate with NaOH as catalyst by condensation to give 2-hydro- xyethylhydrazine and then cyclization with 3-methoxyacrylonitrile in an overall yield of 40%.
Industrial soft pastries and the various breads are cereals products containing a humidity which is favorable to the development of mouldiness. Different or various methods of conservation has been attempted. One interesting approach to the problem is packaging in controlled atmosphere. It requires adequate machinery and suitable conditioning materials. Jardry-Buquet and Hayssen's machines are rapidly described as well as some of the packing film used for making air-tight bags. Bad results were observed with nitrogen, argon and a mixture of nitrogen-carbon dioxide. The satisfactory results obtained with the nitrous oxide for cakes (especially fruit-cakes) and for the bread with a mixture of ethylene oxide-carbon dioxide are: a good conservation for a period of 4 to 6 months in both cases. Organoleptic qualities of the products are not significantly diminished after eight weeks of preservation. The gases contained on the bags are analysed at different periods and the progressive disappearance of the nitrous oxide as well as the athylene dioxide was measured. The compounds derivated from these gases were researched on different extracts. No derivatives of the nitrous oxide were observed. From the ethylene oxide, the derivatives found in the bread are diethylene glycol and 2-chloroethanol; their concentrations are respectively 100 and 300 ppm in the case of 85 : 15 mixture, but decrease to a mere trace and 45 ppm in the case of 98 : 2 mixture. The measure of humidity, of peroxides and of the staleness of crumb are favourable for a good conservation.
27 28 Evidences have suggested that the endocannabinoid system is overactive in obesity, 29 resulting in enhanced endocannabinoid levels in both circulation and visceral adipose 30 tissue. The blockade of cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1) has been proposed for the 31 treatment of obesity. Besides loss of body weight, the CB1 antagonism improves insulin 32 sensitivity, in which the glucose transporter GLUT4 plays a key role. The aim of this 33 study was to investigate the modulation of GLUT4-encoded gene (Slc2a4 gene) 34 expression by CB1 receptor. For this, 3T3-L1 adipocytes were incubated in the presence 35 of a highly selective CB1 receptor agonist (1 μM ACEA, 36 arachidonyl-2-chloroethanolamide) and/or a CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist (0.1, 37 0.5 or 1 μM AM251, 38 N-(Piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-ca 39 rboxamide). After acute (2 and 4 hours) and chronic (24 hours) treatment, cells were 40 harvested to evaluate: 1) Slc2a4, Cnr1 (CB1 receptor-encoded gene) and Srebp1a 41 mRNAs (Real Time PCR); 2) GLUT4 protein (Western blotting); and 3) binding activity 42 of nuclear factor (NF)-κB and sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP)-1 43 specifically in the promoter of Slc2a4 gene (Eletrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay). Results 44 revealed that both acute and chronic CB1 receptor antagonism greatly increased (~2.5 45 Page 3 of 46
Fragments of clupeines, YI, YII, and Z of divergent chain length and different amino acid composition were prepared by digestion with thermolysin and a mixture of carboxypeptidases A and B, and their conformational preferences examined as a function of pH, added salts, presence of a helix-supporting solvent, and temperature. All these highly basic oligopeptides adopt an essentially unordered conformation in aqueous solution. 2-Chloroethanol supports in various amounts the onset of the right-handed alpha-helical form in the carboxy-peptidase fragments.
and Kyung Min KimDepartment of Chemistry, Hanyang University, Seoul 133-791, Korea Received August 3, 19994-Hydroxy-4'-methoxyazobenzene and 4-hydroxy-4'-cyanoazobenzene were synthesized from phenol with p-anisidine and p-aminobenzonitrile through a diazotization reaction, respectively. They were reacted with 2-chloroethanol, 2-(2-chloroethoxy)ethanol, or 2-[2-(2-chloroethoxy)ethoxy]ethanol to produce six kinds of newmesogenic alcohols having an azobenzene group that is sensitive to the ultraviolet. Twelve kinds of new pho-toresponsive monomers with two symmetrical mesogens were prepared by the reaction of the mesogenic alco-hols with fumaric acid or maleic acid through a Mitsunobu reaction. The resulting monomers have differentlength of flexible ethyleneoxy spacer tethered to azobenzene group. The length of the spacer affected their ther-mal stability, solubility, and phase transition temperature. Structures of the monomers were identified by FT-IR and
A 13C NMR study of calf thymus histone H1 in both aqueous solution and 2-chloroethanol solution was performed to clarify the folding behavior in these systems. To ascertain the general trend of displacements of 13C shifts upon folding in an enhanced manner, the latter solvent was employed since it is known to increase the amount of alpha-helix content in histone to about 50%. Generally, upfield displacements of C beta signals (up to 1.4 ppm) were clearly identified as helix-induced peaks, although displacements of C alpha signals, which might be much larger, were not easily distinguished because of overlap of several broadened signals with reduced peak intensities. In particular, we found that the upfield displacement of Ala C beta, by 1.1 ppm, is an excellent probe to monitor the presence of alpha-helix conformation in both 2-chloroethanol and aqueous solutions. This upfield displacement of the C beta signal in alpha-helix segment is consistent with our previous findings for a number of model polypeptides by ordinary and solid-state high resolution 13C NMR spectroscopy. Further, we observed that 13C peaks of several residues (Tyr, Ser, Leu, Ile, and Val) were suppressed as a result of specific folding of H1 in the presence of NaCl in aqueous solution. Thus, it appears that several tightly-folded segments whose 13C signals were considerably broadened are located in the central core portion.
Pseudomonas sp. GJ1 is able to grow with 2- chloroethanol as the sole carbon and energy source, but not with 2-bromoethanol, which is toxic at low concentra- tions (1 mM). A mutant that could grow on 2-bro- moethanol with a growth rate of 0.034 h -1 at concentra- tions up to 5 mM was isolated and designated strain GJ1M9. Measurement of enzyme activities showed that mutant and wild-type strains contained a PMS-linked alco- hol dehydrogenase that was active with halogenated alco- hols and that was threefold overexpressed in the mutant when grown on 2-chloroethanol, but only slightly overpro- duced when grown on 2-bromoethanol. Both strains also contained an NAD-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase that had no activity with halogenated alcohols. Haloacetate de- halogenase levels were similar in the wild-type and the mutant. Activities of NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydro- genase were only slightly higher in extracts of the mutant grown with 2-bromoethanol than in those of the wild-type grown with 2-chloroethanol. SDS-PAGE, however, showed that this enzyme amounted to more than 50% of the total cellular protein in extracts of the mutant from 2-bromoethanol-grown cells, which was fourfold higher than in extracts of the wild-type strain grown on 2- chloroethanol. The enzyme was purified and shown to be a tetrameric protein consisting of subunits of 55 kDa. The enzyme had low Km values for acetaldehyde and other non-halogenated aldehydes (0.8-4 μM), but much higher Km values for chloroacetaldehyde (1.7 mM) and bromo- acetaldehyde (10.5 mM), while Vmax values were similar for halogenated and non-halogenated aldehydes. Cultures that were pregrown on 2-chloroethanol rapidly lost alde- hyde dehydrogenase activity after addition of 2-bromo- ethanol and chloroamphenicol, which indicates that bro- moacetaldehyde inactivates the enzyme. To achieve growth with 2-bromoethanol, the high expression of the enzyme thus appears to be necessary in order to compensate for the high Km for bromoacetaldehyde and for inactivation of the enzyme by bromoacetaldehyde.
Carboxymethylation of glucagon and subsequent purification of the hormone has provided a derivative modified by the addition of bulk to the methionine at position 27 without a net charge alteration in the side chain. Unreacted glucagon was removed after methylation of the methionine which provides a positively charged chromatographic handle. The derivative has a half-maximum concentration for binding of 5.3 nM and is a full agonist. These findings along with those provided by methylation of the methionine indicate that a positive charge rather than bulk on the methionine side chain disrupts the binding of hormone to its receptor. The S-carboxymethyl derivative lacks the concentration-dependent aggregation characteristic of glucagon at pH 10.2 as does the S-methyl derivative but increases its helical content in 30% 2-chloroethanol to the same extent as native and S-methyl hormone. Full activity of the S-carboxymethyl methionine27 glucagon does not favor the existence of the globular structure proposed by Korn and Ottensmeyer [(1983) J. Theor. Biol. 105, 403] as the binding species whereas multiple considerations do favor a flexible hormone with nucleation followed by conformational changes for complete binding and activation. Isotopic enrichment using labeled iodoacetate is feasible and can provide more definitive structural information.
Abstract: Two series of efficient and cost-effective anion exchangers possessing biocidal properties are reported for the removal of nitrate ions from aqueous solutions. Isotactic polypropylene (IPP) was modified by graft copolymerization with poly(4-vinyl pyridine) using γ-rays as initiator. The graft copolymers were functionalized further by reaction with sodium 2-bromoethane sulphonate or 2-Chloroethanol to generate, respectively, the zwitterionic or choline-analogous structure on the IPP backbone. The functionalized graft copolymers have exchangeable Cl - or Br - ions and possess antimicrobial properties due to their polycationic character. These exhibited structure-property relationship when evaluated as anion exchangers for NO 3 - ions of which the maximum was removed from the feed solution with the graft copolymer having the lowest percent grafting. But the nature of the counter anion present did not exhibit much difference in the nitrate uptake behaviour. A parametric study, to evaluate the effect of different conditions on nitrate uptake, was carried as a function of contact time, temperature, pH of medium and NO 3 - concentration. A high maximum exchange capacity of 14.77 mg/g and 13.62 mg/g was observed, respectively for the graft copolymers having Br - and Cl - as the counter anions, at pH 5.0, 35 oC, and 20 ppm of the nitrate ions after ten cycles. The materials also exhibited good reusability up to ten cycles. The kinetics and mechanism of nitrate removal was studied and the data was found to fit the pseudo-second order kinetics and Langmuir isotherm.
Abstract Libraries of highly enantioenriched secondary alcohols in both enantiomeric forms were synthesised by enzymatic reduction of their parent ketones using selectAZyme™ carbonyl reductase (CRED) technology. Commercially available CREDs were able to reduce a range of substrate classes efficiently and with very high enantioselectivity. Matching substrate classes to small subsets of CREDs enabled the fast development of preparative bioreductions and the rapid generation of 100–1500 mg samples of chiral alcohols in typically >95% ee and the majority in ⩾99.0% ee. The conditions for small scale synthesis were then scaled up to 0.5 kg to deliver one of the chiral alcohols, ( S )-1-(4-bromophenyl)-2-chloroethanol, in 99.8% ee and 91% isolated yield.
The effects of 2-chloroethanol (ClEtOH) on the self-association of three N-acetyl-L-amino acid N′,N′-dimethylamides (Val, Leu, Phe as amino acids) have been studied in water–deuterium oxide solutions by 1H and 13C F.t.n.m.r. These amides were found to self-associate through hydrogen bonding to a small extent. Hydrogen-bonding association of the amides takes place when [ClEtOH]/[amide] > 1. The hydroxyl proton peak of water–ClEtOH mixtures shifts to high field regardless of the presence of the amide owing to the disruption of water structure by ClEtOH. The decrease in the hydrogen-bonding capability of the solvent leads to the hydrogen-bonding association of the amide and ClEtOH induces the hydrogen-bonding association of the amides by decreasing the hydrogen-bonding capability of the solvent around the amides.An apparent dissociation of the amide complexes was found to occur at low concentrations of ClEtOH. This is attributed to the hydrophobic interaction between ClEtOH and the alkyl part of the amides to minimize the energy loss due to the disruption of water structure, and the interaction results in a further decrease in the hydrogen-bonding capability of the solvent around the amides and leads to the start of hydrogen-bonding association of the amides.
Abstract The influence of urea, guanidinium chloride (GdmCl), and granidinium thiocyanate (GdmSCN) on the solution structure of lipophilin was examined by circular dischroism and fluorescence techniques. According to the CD results, lipophilin retained at least 60% of organized secondary structure in 8 M urea and 6 M GdmCl (measurements were not possible in GdmSCN). This partial denaturation was of a complex, irreversible nature, and was not appreciably enhanced by prolonged incubation (8 days), by heating to 70 degrees C, by disulfide bond reduction, or by pH variation in the range pH 1.5 to 11. Fluorescence studies demonstrated that the tryptophan residues were only slightly perturbed by 8 M and 6 M GdmCl and remained well buried to the permeant quenching agent acrylamide. A greater, but still far from complete, disruption of lipophilin was achieved in 6 M GdmSCN, and fluorescence polarization provided evidence for some form of cooperative structural change induced by increasing concentrations of this reagent. Transfer of the protein from 2-chloroethanol, in which the tryptophan residues are fully exposed, into 6 M GdmSCN by dialysis resulted in reburial of the fluorophores owing to development of tertiary structure. The combined evidence suggests that the extraordinary resistance of lipophilin to these denaturants is due to the presence of an impervious hydrophobic core. In lipophilin and some other membrane-associated proteins, extended sequences of apolar residues might provide the nuclei for such structural domains.
Abstract By incubation of bacteriophage fd at 25° for 20 hr in 15% (v/v) 2-chloroethanol, 0.14 M NaCl, 0.02 M Tris, pH 7.6, we obtained a stable defective particle lacking the minor coat protein (A-protein) and infectivity. The defective particle could not be distinguished from the intact phage by measurements of uv absorption, circular dichroism, sedimentation velocity, and CsCl buoyant density. The melting temperature of the defective particle as determined by the midtransition of the uv absorption at 260 nm in 4 M guanidine hydrochloride, 0.14 M NaCl, 0.02 M Tris, pH 7.6, was about 2.5° lower than that of the intact phage.
4-Hydroxy-4'-methoxyazobenzene and 4-hydroxy-4'-cyanoazobenzene were synthesized from phenol with p-anisidine and p-aminobenzonitrile through a diazotization reaction, respectively. They were reacted with 2-chloroethanol, 2-(2-chloroethoxy)ethanol, or 2-[2-(2-chloroethoxy)ethoxy]ethanol to produce six kinds of new mesogenic alcohols having an azobenzene group that is sensitive to the ultraviolet. Twelve kinds of new photoresponsive monomers with two symmetrical mesogens were prepared by the reaction of the mesogenic alcohols with fumaric acid or maleic acid through a Mitsunobu reaction. The resulting monomers have different length of flexible ethyleneoxy spacer tethered to azobenzene group. The length of the spacer affected their thermal stability, solubility, and phase transition temperature. Structures of the monomers were identified by FT-IR and ¹H-NMR spectra. Their phase transition temperatures and thermal stability were also investigated by a differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) and a thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). From an optical polarizing microscopy, all the prepared monomers except fumarate-1 and maleate-1 were found to show enantiotropic liquid crystallinity with a smectic texture like focal-conic, fan-shaped, and batonnet textures.
The hydrophobic chlorocarbon mirex readily binds to aqueous humic acids (HAs). In HA solutions irradiated at sunlight wavelengths (λ ≥ 290 nm), mirex molecules bound to HAs are transformed to photomirex by dechlorination. The mechanism of this intrahumic dechlorination was investigated both in HA solutions and in model systems simulating select photochemical capabilities of HAs. In HA solution, the reaction was unaffected by methanol and pentanol; was accelerated by hydroxide; and was inhibited by oxygen, 2-chloroethanol, nitrate, and hydrogen ion, all four of which can scavenge hydrated electron. Additional experiments probing for involvement of hydrated electron were consistent with it as the reactant. In irradiated N,N-dimethylaniline solution, a model system for generating hydrated electron, mirex was dechlorinated to form photomirex, the same product that is found in HA solution. Relative rate experiments in HA solution, while inconsistent with the reaction with hydrated electron in homogeneous solut...
The density of the 2-chloroethanol (CE) + 2-methoxyethanol (ME) + 1,2-dimethoxye- thane (DME) ternary mixtures has been measured at different temperatures ranging from −10 to 80°C, and over the entire composition range. The experimental data have been used to check the validity of some relationships accounting for the dependence of the density on temperature and composition domains. Starting from the primary data, some derived quantities, such as excess molar volumes VE, partial molar volumes \(\bar V_{\text{i}} \) and partial excess molar volumes \(\bar V_{\text{i}}^E \), have been obtained. In these mixtures, VE is always positive for the [CE(1) + ME(2)] binaries, while it is generally negative at all other experimental conditions, showing the greatest deviations along the binary axes corresponding to the binary subsystems in the sequence [CE(1) + DME(2)] < [CE(1) + ME(2)] < [ME(1) + DME(2)]. The results are compared and discussed to in terms of changes in molecular association and structural effects in these solvent systems.
A linear polyether amine (PEA) was synthesized by ring-opening polymerization using ethylene diamine, 2-chloroethanol and epoxy chloropropane. PEA was then cross-linked with diisocyanates to produce crosslinkable polymers, P1A, P1, P1B and P2. The synthesized crosslinkable polyurethanes were characterized by IR and 1H-NMR spectra, and their thermal stabilities and degradabilities were investigated by TG and DSC. Their biodegradabilities were studied in PBS aqueous buffer (pH 7.42) in the presence of papain. The results showed that the thermal degradation of polymers mainly consisted of two stages: the first weight loss should be due to the break of amide bond in the polymers, during which the temperatures at the maximum weight loss rate for P1A, P1, P1B and P2 were 337.3, 367.6, 372.7 and 367.4℃ respectively; the second weight loss should be due to the break of main chain of PEA, the temperatures at the maximum weight loss rate for P1A, P1, P1B and P2 were 440.5, 422.5, 444.9 and 482.7℃ respectively. The weight loss for P1 was over 40% in aqueous buffer in the presence of papain after 60 d. The biodegradation rates of polymers decreased when the quantities of cross-linking agents increased.
A 27-residue peptide, having a sequence corresponding to the transmembrane domain of the IsK protein with slow voltage-gated potassium channel activity, has been incorporated into synthetic saturated-chain phospholipid membranes. The peptide-lipid complexes have been characterized by attenuated-total-reflection Fourier-transform-infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR), spin-label electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy, 31P and 2H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry, and low-angle X-ray diffraction. From FTIR spectroscopy, it is found that, when reconstituted into membranes by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol, the peptide has a predominantly beta-strand secondary structure in which the peptide backbone is oriented at an angle of approximately 56 degrees relative to the membrane normal in dry films of phosphatidylcholines. Hydration of the dry film in the gel phase does not appear to affect the orientation of the peptide backbone, and a relatively small change in orientation occurs when the bilayer undergoes the transition to the fluid phase. The ESR and NMR spectra from spin-labeled and 2H-labeled phospholipids, respectively, indicate that the incorporated peptide restricts the rotational motion of the lipids, without appreciably affecting the chain order, in a way similar to that found for integral membrane proteins. The characteristic two-component ESR spectra from spin-labeled lipids further indicate a selectivity in the interaction of anionic phospholipids with the peptide. The motional restriction of the chains of the spin-labeled phosphatidylcholine and the reduction in the enthalpy of the lipid chain-melting transition indicate that, on average, approximately two to three phospholipid molecules interact directly with each peptide monomer, which is consistent with a limited degree of aggregation of the beta-sheet structures. Both 31P NMR spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction indicate that the lipid-peptide complexes have a lamellar structure up to the highest peptide concentration studied (Rp = 0.2). The surface area occupied by lipid molecules (ca. 30 A2 per chain) in the peptide complexes, deduced from the lamellar repeat spacings at defined water content, is very similar to that in pure fluid lipid bilayers, consistent with the 2H NMR results. The additional membrane surface area contributed by the peptide is approximately 112 A2 per monomer. This large value for the peptide area in the fluid bilayer is consistent with the ATR studies of dry peptide/lipid films which suggest that the long axis of the beta-strand is strongly tilted with respect to the bilayer normal (56 degrees in the dry film).
In reactions of 4,5-diacetoxy-2-(dinitromethylene)imidazolidine, 4,5-diacetoxy-2-nitriminoimidazolidine, and 1,2-diacetoxy-1,2-bis(chloroacetylamino)ethane with thionyl chloride at room temperature the corresponding cyclic sulfites were obtained. Treating the sulfites with methanol, ethanol, and 2-chloroethanol at room temperature we prepared acyclic ethers in 80–90% yields. Similarly cyclic ethers were synthesized from ethylene glycol and 1,3-propanediol in 50–60% yields.
This study was to explore the mechanisms underlying 1,2-dichloroethane (1,2-DCE) induced brain edema by focusing on alteration of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) in rat astrocytes induced by 2-chloroethanol (2-CE), an intermediate metabolite of 1,2-DCE in vivo. Protein and mRNA levels of MMP-2, and the phosphorylated protein levels of p38 MAPK (p-p38), extracellular signal regulated protein kinase (p-ERK1/2) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (p-JNK1/2) in astrocytes were examined by immunostaining, western blot or real-time RT-PCR analysis. Findings from this study disclosed that protein levels of MMP-2 were upregulated by 2-CE in astrocytes. Meanwhile, protein levels of p-p38, p-ERK1/2 and p-JNK1/2 were also increased apparently in the cells treated with 2-CE. Moreover, pretreatment of astrocytes with SB202190 (inhibitor of p38 MAPK), U0126 (inhibitor of ERK1/2) or SP600125 (inhibitor of JNK1/2) could suppress the upregulated expression of p-p38, p-ERK1/2 and p-JNK1/2. In response to suppressed protein levels of p-p38 and p-JNK1/2, the protein levels of MMP-2 also decreased significantly, indicating that activation of MAPK signal pathways were involved in the mechanisms underlying 2-CE-induced upregulation of MMP-2 expression.
The effects of organic nutrients and cocultures on substrate removal by and competitive behavior of 1,2-dichloroethane-degrading bacteria were investigated. Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 needed biotin for optimal growth on 1,2-dichloroethane. In continuous culture, dilution of biotin to a concentration below 0.2 nM resulted in washout. Growth could be restored by inoculation with the 2-chloroethanol utilizer Pseudomonas sp. strain GJ1, leading to a new steady state in which about 1% of the mixed culture consisted of cells of strain GJ1. This indicates that strain GJ1 excreted biotin or a precursor for its synthesis. Inoculation of the mixed culture with Ancylobacter aquaticus AD25 did not result in washout of strain GJ10, although strain AD25 has a 10-fold-lower K(s) for growth on 1,2-dichloroethane. Strain AD25 did not become dominant because of the lack of vitamins, which are necessary for its optimal growth. The results indicate that medium composition and the presence of other species strongly influence the effect of substrate limitation on the composition of a bacterial population that degrades a xenobiotic compound in a continuous culture.
The effects of organic nutrients and cocultures on substrate removal by and competitive behavior of 1,2-dichloroethane-degrading bacteria were investigated. Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ1O needed biotin for optimal growth on 1,2-dichloroethane. In continuous culture, dilution of biotin to a concentration below 0.2 nM resulted in washout. Growth could be restored by inoculation with the 2-chloroethanol utilizer Pseudomonas sp. strain GJ1, leading to a new steady state in which about 1% of the mixed culture consisted of cells of strain GJ1. This indicates that strain GJ1 excreted biotin or a precursor for its synthesis. Inoculation of the mixed culture with Ancylobacter aquaticus AD25 did not result in washout of strain GJ10, although strain AD25 has a 10-fold-lower K, for growth on 1,2-dichloroethane. Strain AD25 did not become dominant because of the lack of vitamins, which are necessary for its optimal growth. The results indicate that medium composition and the presence of other species strongly influence the effect of substrate limitation on the composition of a bacterial population that degrades a xenobiotic compound in a continuous culture.
The kinetics of acrylamide polymerization has been investigated by employing cericammoniumnitrate-2-chloroethanol redox pair under nitrogen atmosphere at 30 ± 1°C. The rate of monomer disappearance is directly proportional to the concentration of 2-chloroethanol (1.0 × 10−2 − 10.0 × 10−2 mol. dm−3) and is inversely proportional to the ceric ion concentration (2.5 × 10−3 − 10.0 × 10−3 mol. dm−3) but shows square dependence to the concentration of monomer (5.0 × 10−2 − 25.0 × 10−2 mol. dm−3). The rate of ceric ion disappearance is directly proportional to the initial concentration of ceric ion and 2-chloroethanol but independent of acrylamide concentration. The viscometric average molecular weight (Mv) decreases on increasing the concentration of ceric ion and increases on increasing the concentrations of acrylamide and 2-chloroethanol. A tentative mechanism has been proposed.
Experimental values of density, viscosity, and refractive index at 298.15, 303.15, and 308.15 K, and the speed of sound at 298.15 K, for the binary mixtures of 2-chloroethanol with n-alkanols (C1−C6) are presented over the entire mole fraction range. Using these data, excess molar volume and deviations in viscosity, Δη, speed of sound, Δu, and isentropic compressibility, ΔkS, have been calculated. Excess quantities and deviations have been fitted to the Redlich−Kister equation to derive the binary coefficients with the standard errors between the experimental and calculated quantities. Sign and magnitude of the mixing quantities have been discussed to study the nature of molecular interactions in binary mixtures.
1,2-Dichloroethane, also known as ethylene dichloride, can be found in air, water, and soil; it is produced by volcanoes and forest fires. Drinking, breathing, and eating are the prime routes of human exposure. It is used as a general anesthetic instead of chloroform, especially in ophthalmic surgery. Crude oil and gasoline are sources of 1,2-dichloroethane; therefore, automobile exhaust serves as a prolific emitter of this compound. It leaks into the water and soil from faulty underground fuel storage tanks, spills, or factory releases. Indoor air and tobacco smoke are also major sources of concerns. Besides gasoline, it is used in Styrofoam, polyvinyl chloride, plastics, nylon, rubber, lubricants, dyes, and pesticides production. It is a colorless liquid with a chloroform-like odor and is genotoxic in multiple test systems via multiple routes of exposure. It is a central nervous system (CNS) depressant that produces symptoms ranging from nausea, vomiting, headache, lightheadedness, and weakness to stupor, disequilibrium, coma, and respiratory arrest. High-level exposure leads to severe CNS signs ultimately leading to oliguria and hepatic transaminasemia and occasionally hepatorenal failure. Ingestions can be damaging to kidney, liver, and adrenal gland as well as the gastrointestinal tract. Severe hepatorenal toxicity is often associated with hypoglycemia, hypercalcemia, hypoprothrombinemia, reduced clotting factors, adrenal necrosis, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage and leads to a bluish-purple discoloration of the skin, dermatitis, and corneal abrasions. The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has enforced the maximum contaminant level (MCL) goal for this compound to be ‘zero’ in drinking water to prevent potential health problems. EPA's permissible MCL has been set to 0.005 mg l −1 or 5 ppb. MCLs are set as close to the health goals as possible, considering cost, benefits, and the ability of public water systems to detect and remove contaminants using suitable treatment technologies. Two distinct pathways metabolize 1,2-dichloroethane: (1) saturable microsomal oxidation by cytochrome P450, producing 2-chloroacetaldehyde and 2-chloroethanol followed by conjugation with glutathione; (2) direct conjugation with glutathione to form S -(2-chloroethyl)-glutathione, which may be nonenzymatically converted to a glutathione episulfonium ion (a DNA-adduct-forming ion) responsible for gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations. It has been detected in the breast milk of women occupationally exposed via inhalation and dermal contact. The lethal oral dose of 1,2-dichloroethane in humans has been estimated to be between 20 and 50 ml. The LD 50 doses of orally administered 1,2-dichloroethane have been determined to be 800–1000 mg kg −1 for mice and 600–900 mg kg −1 for rats. Based on the induction of several tumor types in rats and mice treated by gavage and lung papillomas in mice after topical application, 1,2-dichloroethane has been classified as a probable human carcinogen (Category B2).
Static dielectric constants (e) were determined for the 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE, 1)/2-chloroethanol (CE, 2) binary solvent system at 19 temperatures ranging from −10 to +80 °C and in the whole composition range expressed by the mole fraction 0 ≤ X1 ≤ 1. The experimental values have been fitted to some equations that could be usefully employed for predictive e calculations. Furthermore, the excess mixing properties (eE) have been evaluated in order to point out the presence of solvent–cosolvent adducts in the binary mixtures mentioned above. The values of eE have been generally found to be negative and only slightly positive under a few experimental conditions in the CE rich-region, thus giving evidence of a close interaction network probably via hydrogen bonding as well as other interactions of every kind in this solvent system.
1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-methyl imidazolium chloride [IM12OHCl], 1-(3- ::: hydroxypropyl)-3-methyl imidazolium chloride [IM13OHCl] and 1-(6-hydroxyhexyl)- ::: 3-methyl imidazolium chloride [IM16OHCl] have been synthesized in the laboratory by ::: reacting 1-methylimidazole with 2-chloroethanol, 3-chloropropanol, and 6- ::: chlorohexanol, while 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-ethyl imidazolium chloride [IM22OHCl] ::: has been synthesized by reacting 1-ethylimidazole with 2-chloroethanol. The toxicity of ::: these ionic liquids are determined according to OECD Guideline 203. Six aquarium ::: filled with 5 L of lake water are prepared. The water temperature is kept at 23 ±1 °C ::: and aerated to restore the concentration of dissolved oxygen to at least 60% of its air ::: saturation value. 10 fish are placed in each aquarium and the aquariums are kept under ::: normal laboratory illumination with a daily photoperiod of 12 h. A limit test is ::: performed at the concentration of 100 mg L-1 of each synthesized ionic liquid and left ::: for 96 hours. After 96 hours, 2 fish died in the aquarium containing 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)- ::: 3-ethyl imidazolium chloride, while no fish died in the other aquariums. The full ::: toxicity test according to OECD Guideline 203 is performed using 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)- ::: 3-ethyl imidazolium chloride at five concentrations from 20.0 to 100.0 mg/L and result ::: shows that no fish died. It is concluded that all the four ionic liquids tested are non-toxic ::: to freshwater fish
The electronic structure of five conformers of 2-chloroethanol was studied by ab initio calculations at B3LYP and MP2 levels of theory with aug-cc-pVTZ basis set. The existing hydrogen bond and hyperconjugation effects on the stability of 2-chloroethanol conformers were discussed on the base of natural bond orbital analyses. The result exhibits that hyper-conjugation is the main factor to determine the stability of conformers. Such effects on the electron wavefunctions of the highest-occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of different conformers are demonstrated with electron momentum spectroscopy, exhibiting the obviously different symmetries of the HOMO wavefunctions in momentum space.
The electronic structure of five conformers of 2-chloroethanol was studied by ab initio calculations at B3LYP and MP2 levels of theory with aug-cc-pVTZ basis set. The existing hydrogen bond and hyperconjugation effects on the stability of 2-chloroethanol conformers were discussed on the base of natural bond orbital analyses. The result exhibits that hyperconjugation is the main factor to determine the stability of conformers. Such effects on the electron wavefunctions of the highest-occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of different conformers are demonstrated with electron momentum spectroscopy, exhibiting the obviously different symmetries of the HOMO wavefunctions in momentum space.
Less than 5% of the protein isolated from Rhodopseudomonas spheroides chromatophores (designated Fraction P1) is insoluble in 2-chloroethanol. Electrophoresis of these proteins on dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gels reveals a gel pattern similar to those obtained from anaerobic and aerobic cell envelope proteins. Chromatophore P1 is shown to be part of the chromatophore structure and its presence in the chromatophore is not due to contamination from the cytoplasmic membrane. ::: ::: Preparative dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was performed to purify chromatophore Pll proteins, which comprise 95% of the total chromatophore protein. These proteins contain approximately 60–65 mole% non-polar amino acids. Comparison studies of the amino acid compositions, tryptic and chymotryptic maps, molecular weights, and antigenic reactivity of chromatophore proteins demonstrate the existence of protein heterogeneity in chromatophores. These investigations lead us to suggest that chromatophore-specific proteins do not appear in other particulate or soluble fractions derived from either aerobic or anaerobic-grown cells.
A bacterium that uses 2-chloroethanol as sole energy and carbon source coupled to denitrification was isolated from 1,2-dichloroethane-contaminated soil. Its 16 S rDNA sequence showed 98% similarity with the type strain of Pseudomonas stutzeri (DSM 5190) and the isolate was tentatively identified as Pseudomonas stutzeri strain JJ. Strain JJ oxidized 2-chloroethanol completely to CO(2) with NO(3)(- )or O(2) as electron acceptor, with a preference for O(2) if supplied in combination. Optimum growth on 2-chloroethanol with nitrate occurred at 30 degrees C with a mu(max) of 0.14 h(-1) and a yield of 4.4 g protein per mol 2-chloroethanol metabolized. Under aerobic conditions, the mu(max) was 0.31 h(-1). NO(2)(-) also served as electron acceptor, but reduction of Fe(OH)(3), MnO(2), SO(4)(2-), fumarate or ClO(3)(-) was not observed. Another chlorinated compound used as sole energy and carbon source under aerobic and denitrifying conditions was chloroacetate. Various different bacterial strains, including some closely related Pseudomonas stutzeri strains, were tested for their ability to grow on 2-chloroethanol as sole energy and carbon source under aerobic and denitrifying conditions, respectively. Only three strains, Pseudomonas stutzeri strain LMD 76.42, Pseudomonas putida US2 and Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, grew aerobically on 2-chloroethanol. This is the first report of oxidation of 2-chloroethanol under denitrifying conditions by a pure bacterial culture.
Erythrocyte ghosts were solubilized by addition of acid 2-chloroethanol to an aqueous membrane suspension. The proteins were separated from the lipids by chromatography on Sephadex LH-20 (Zahler and Wallach, 1967). Both the solution of separated proteins and of the total membrane in chloroethanol-water can be spread at a benzene-water interface. By lowering a thin teflon plate with a small hole through this interface, one can form protein or protein-lipid films over the hole. After the benzene has evaporated stable thin membranes are formed which contain only protein or protein together with lipid. The morphology and thickness of these membranes were investigated by different electron microscopic techniques.
In presence of NaOH, using PEG-400 as phase transfer catalyst, tandem reactions of N- and O-alkylationof 1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol were performed in THF to afford miconazole and econazole with yields of 63%and 68%, respectively.
The ultrasonic absorption properties are reported for alcohol + water mixtures where the alcohol is 2-chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol, 2-cyanoethanol, allyl alcohol, ethane-1 : 2-diol, propane-1 : 2-diol, propanel-1 : 3-diol, butane-1 : 4-diol and pentane-1 : 5-diol. The glycols and 2-cyanoethanol show little if any excess absorption but the three mixtures, water+2-bromoethanol, allyl alcohol + water and chloroethanol + water have intense excess absorptions which, for the latter two systems, have been analysed using two relaxation frequencies. The dependence of the derived relaxation frequencies on composition and temperature are similar to those previously reported for aqueous mixtures containing t-butyl alcohol, n-propyl alcohol and isopropyl alcohol and it is suggested that the controlling factor is bulk water structure.
An alkali-stable bilirubin conjugate has been obtained from human T-tube bile as its phenylazo derivative. The conjugate consists of a polypeptide probably of molecular weight 7000 to which the azo pigment of bilirubin is linked covalently through its carboxyl group. It thus constitutes the first biliprotein found in mammals. It is not known whether both carboxyl groups of native bilirubin participate in the binding of the conjugating protein, nor has it been possible to determine the number of pigment moieties occurring on a single polypeptide chain. The isolation makes use of the tendency of the conjugate to form large aggregates and involves the following steps: azo coupling of the native bile, (NH4)2S04 precipitation of macromolecules and aggregates, removal of low molecular weight contaminants by dialysis and gel filtration (first on Sepharose 6B IN 6 M guanidine, then on Sephadex LH-20 in 50% acqueous 2-chloroethanol) and a concluding purification by chromatography on p-aminobenzyl cellulose using a PH gradient. The final preparation appeared to be homogeneous on polyacrylamide electrophoresis.
Starting from N-methylimidazole, 1,2-dimethylimidazole and 2-chloroethanol, a series of imidazolium-based ener- getic ionic liquids were synthesized via quaternization, nitration and metathesis reactions. All the energetic ionic liquids were characterized by ultraviolet visible spectrum (UV-Vis), infrared spectrum (IR), mass spectrometry (MS), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and elemental analysis. The solubility study of these ionic liquids was carried out with commonly used or- ganic solvents, which showed that the energetic ionic liquids dissolved easily in polar solvents. Moreover, the ionic liquids had good thermo-stabilities indicated by thermal gravimetric analysis (TG-DTG) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). TG-DTG analyses showed that N-nitrooxyethylimidazolium nitrate decomposed at about 160 ℃ and N-hydroxyethylimida- zolium ionic salts decomposed above 190 ℃. Furthermore, there was an obvious glass transition process for the energetic ionic liquids based on 1-(2-nitrooxyethyl)-3-methylimidazolium and N-hydroxyethylimidazolium during the secondary heating process of DSC, which was the unique property of ionic liquids. Their densities and standard enthalpies of formation and det- onation properties were calculated and analyzed. Keywords energetic materials; quaternary ammonium; metathesis; thermal properties; detonation properties
Lipophilin, a hydrophobic myelin protein, was incorporated into phosphatidylcholine vesicles by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol which has been shown to produce single-layered lipid-protein vesicles. These vesicles were labeled with a nonpenetrating surface-labeling reagent, 4,4'-diisothiocyano-2,2'-ditritiostilbene disulfonic acid, ([3H]DIDS), in order to determine if the protein completely spans the bilayer. After labeling the vesicles, lipophilin was isolated. At least 88% of the protein ws labeled with [3H]DIDS. Dextran (mol wt 250,000-275,000) was converted to the dialdehyde form and reacted with lipophilin-PC vesicles. In this case greater than 90% of the protein was complexed to the dextran. The high degree of labeling obtained with both compounds was consistent with a model in which lipophilin was considered to span the bilayer completely.
The photochlorination of ethanol, n-butanol, and benzoic acid (organics which react slowly or not at all with chlorine thermally) is studied. The main reaction products for ethanol are acetic acid and acetaldehyde. Only minor quantities of chlorinated products such as 2-chloroethanol and 2-chloroacetaldehyde are produced in the reaction because hydroxyl radicals and chlorine atoms preferentially attack the hydroxyl carbon in ethanol. For n-butanol and benzoic acid, a large number and quantity of chlorinated organics are produced by the reaction chlorinated organics can be produced photochemically by sunlight in waters being disinfected with chlorine
Abstract H-Val-Ser-Ile-Glu-Glu-Glu-Ser-Ser-Pro-Ser-Val-Glu-Glu-Glu-Asp-Ser-Ile-Ala-OH- was synthesized by the solid-phase method. The peptide was purified by gel chromatography and ion-exchange chromatography. The octadecapeptide shows α-helix-structure in 2-chloroethanol.
Chlorinated organophosphate ester (OPE)-degrading enrichment cultures were obtained using tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP) or tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP) as the sole phosphorus source. In cultures with 46 environmental samples, significant TCEP and TDCPP degradation was observed in 10 and 3 cultures, respectively, and successive subcultivation markedly increased their degradation rates. 67E and 45D stable enrichment cultures obtained with TCEP and TDCPP, respectively, completely degraded 20 μM of the respective compounds within 6 h and also the other, although the degradation rate of TCEP by 45D was relatively slow. We confirmed chloride ion generation on degradation in both cases and the generation of 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) and 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol (1,3-DCP) as metabolites of TCEP and TDCPP, respectively. 67E and 45D also showed dehalogenation ability toward 2-CE and 1,3-DCP, respectively. Addition of inorganic phosphate did not significantly influence their ability to degrade the chlorinated OPEs but markedly increased their dehalogenation ability, which was maximum at 0.2 mM of inorganic phosphate and decreased at a higher concentration. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis showed that dominant bacteria in 67E are related to Acidovorax spp. and Sphingomonas spp. and those in 45D are Acidovorax spp., Aquabacterium spp., and Sphingomonas spp. This analysis indicated the relationship of the Sphingomonas- and Acidovorax-related bacteria with the cleavage of the phosphoester bond and dehalogenation, respectively, in both cultures. This is the first report on bacterial enrichment cultures capable of degrading both TCEP and TDCPP.
The method of differential densitometry has been used to investigate the preferential interaction of lysozyme with the solvent components in water + aliphatic alcohol systems. The density measurements were carried out with a digital density meter at 20 ± 0.01 °C. No significant excess binding of solvent components was detected if the amount of aliphatic alcohol was < 40 wt%. Above this solvent composition preferential binding of water molecules occurs. The denaturation process of lysozyme in water + 2-chloroethanol, water + 2-ethoxyethanol and water + aliphatic alcohol systems is discussed on the basis of the results obtained in studies of preferential interaction, conformational transitions and ultrasonic absorption in these systems.
Chloroethyl 2, 3, 4, 6-tetra-O-acetyl-β-D-glucopyranoside (5) and 2'-chloroethyl β-D-glucopyranoside (6) are potent intermediates for carbohydrate drug synthesis. With D-glucose (1) as a raw material, a corresponding 2, 3, 4, 6-tetra-O-acetyl-D- glucopyranosyl trichloroacetamide (2) was prepared through acetylation, deacetylation at C1 postion, reacting with trichloroacetinitrile. With the ester as a donor, coupling reaction with 2-chloroethanol was taken at the catalysis of BF3∙Et2O to an 1, 2-trans compound 2'-chloroethyl 2, 3, 4, 6-tetra-O-acetyl-β-D-glucopyranoside (5). The latter was deacetylated to obtain 2'- chloroethyl β-D-glucopyranoside (6). The synthetical routine is rational and practical.
There is limited knowledge of interspecies interactions in biofilm communities. In this study, Pseudomonas sp. strain GJ1, a 2-chloroethanol (2-CE)-degrading organism, and Pseudomonas putida DMP1, a p-cresol-degrading organism, produced distinct biofilms in response to model mixed waste streams composed of 2-CE and various p-cresol concentrations. The two organisms maintained a commensal relationship, with DMP1 mitigating the inhibitory effects of p-cresol on GJ1. A triple-labeling technique compatible with confocal microscopy was used to investigate the influence of toxicant concentrations on biofilm morphology, species distribution, and exopolysaccharide production. Single-species biofilms of GJ1 shifted from loosely associated cell clusters connected by exopolysaccharide to densely packed structures as the p-cresol concentrations increased, and biofilm formation was severely inhibited at high p-cresol concentrations. In contrast, GJ1 was abundant when associated with DMP1 in a dual-species biofilm at all p-cresol concentrations, although at high p-cresol concentrations it was present only in regions of the biofilm where it was surrounded by DMP1. Evidence in support of a commensal relationship between DMP1 and GJ1 was obtained by comparing GJ1-DMP1 biofilms with dual-species biofilms containing GJ1 and Escherichia coli ATCC 33456, an adhesive strain that does not mineralize p-cresol. Additionally, the data indicated that only tower-like cell structures in the GJ1-DMP1 biofilm produced exopolysaccharide, in contrast to the uniform distribution of EPS in the single-species GJ1 biofilm.
There is limited knowledge of interspecies interactions in biofilm communities. In this study, Pseudomonas sp. strain GJ1, a 2-chloroethanol (2-CE)-degrading organism, and Pseudomonas putida DMP1, a p-cresoldegrading organism, produced distinct biofilms in response to model mixed waste streams composed of 2-CE and various p-cresol concentrations. The two organisms maintained a commensal relationship, with DMP1 mitigating the inhibitory effects of p-cresol on GJ1. A triple-labeling technique compatible with confocal microscopy was used to investigate the influence of toxicant concentrations on biofilm morphology, species distribution, and exopolysaccharide production. Single-species biofilms of GJ1 shifted from loosely associated cell clusters connected by exopolysaccharide to densely packed structures as the p-cresol concentrations increased, and biofilm formation was severely inhibited at high p-cresol concentrations. In contrast, GJ1 was abundant when associated with DMP1 in a dual-species biofilm at all p-cresol concentrations, although at high p-cresol concentrations it was present only in regions of the biofilm where it was surrounded by DMP1. Evidence in support of a commensal relationship between DMP1 and GJ1 was obtained by comparing GJ1-DMP1 biofilms with dual-species biofilms containing GJ1 and Escherichia coli ATCC 33456, an adhesive strain that does not mineralize p-cresol. Additionally, the data indicated that only tower-like cell structures in the GJ1-DMP1 biofilm produced exopolysaccharide, in contrast to the uniform distribution of EPS in the single-species GJ1 biofilm.
Recently, scanning confocal laser microscopy has been developed into a powerful tool for elucidating the three-dimensional architecture and species distribution of biofilm systems (5, 22) and may be useful for correlating biofilm structure with interspecies relationships. In this study, a triple-labeling technique that was compatible with confocal microscopy was developed to characterize the response of a dual-species biofilm to two compounds that are commonly found in mixed organic chemical waste. The biofilm consisted of Pseudomonas putida DMP1, a p-cresol-degrading organism, and Pseudomonas sp. strain GJ1, a 2-chloroethanol (2-CE)-degrading organism. The morphology, species distribution, and EPS production of biofilms grown under increasingly inhibitory toxicant concentrations were examined using scanning confocal laser microscopy. The resulting images elucidated the effect of the interspecies metabolic interactions on the organization of the biofilm.
The conformation changes on reaction of maleic anhydride with two tropomyosins (vertebrate and invertebrate) and paramyosin are reported. Maleylation of tropomyosin leads to more than 90% loss of the α-helical conformation and dissociation into subunits. Only one third of the helix is lost on maleylation of paramyosin and it is not dissociated into subunits. The ORD and CD spectra of maleyl tropomyosin are reported and compared with the spectra of other unordered polypeptide chains. The α-helix can be restored after maleylation of tropomyosin by increase of the ionic strength, variation of pH, or addition of helix-forming solvents such as ethanol, 2-chloroethanol, and trifluoroethanol.
Chronic galactosamine (GalNH2) administration in rats decreases plasma alpha 1-antitrypsin (AAT) levels to 10-50% of control levels and induces the formation of diastase-resistant, PAS-positive granules, which contain AAT in hepatocytes. This report describes the isolation and purification of hepatic granule AAT by three different methods: solubilization with guanidine hydrochloride followed by gel filtration on Bio-gel A5M, extraction with methylamine and 2-chloroethanol, and solubilization with sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) followed by preparative SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. All three methods yield a single protein which precipitates with anti-rat plasma AAT antibody, and which has an apparent molecular weight of 45,000 daltons, in contrast to the molecular weight of plasma AAT, 50,000 daltons. Unlike plasma AAT, granule AAT contains no sialic acid, galactose, or fucose. Moreover, granule AAT contains a reduced amount of N-acetylglucosamine and an increased amount of mannose, compared with plasma AAT. The carbohydrate content of granule AAT varies with the isolation procedure used. Granule AAT is susceptible to cleavage by endoglucosaminidase H, which indicates the presence of high-mannose type oligosaccharides. Comparison of the molecular weight, carbohydrate composition, isoelectric point, and endoglucosaminidase H sensitivity of granule AAT isolated from rats with GalNH2-induced AAT deficiency with granule AAT from PiZ humans extends the list of similarities between experimental GalNH2-induced AAT deficiency in rats by and genetically determined AAT deficiency in humans.
2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) residues in fresh produce is officially analyzed as its methyl ester form by gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC-ECD). Because of safety concerns with diazomethane, the reagent used to form methyl esters, a less toxic and dangerous reagent, BCl 3 /2-chloroethanol, was considered. With this alternative reagent, the detecting product is a 2-chloroethyl ester. Compared with the methylester, the 2-chloroethylester has a longer retention time and a better signal-to-noise ratio for trace level analysis by GC-ECD. However, the reagent produces too many unwanted background peaks. If peak retention time is the only information available to identify the residue in case of litigation, the presence of too much background noise increases the ambiguity of identification. Therefore, confirmation by interpretation of the mass spectrum and determination of the compound structure is necessary to ensure the validity of the method. Ten commodities were fortified with 2,4-D at 0.1 ppm. Recoveries of 2-chloroethyl esters and methyl esters were 91 and 92%, respectively. The method is safe, simple, and robust.
The facile route of preparing S-2-(-aminoalkylamino) ethyl dihydrogen phosphorothioates, potential chemical radioprotectants, have been studied. Intermediate 3-(2-phthalimidoethyl)-2-oxazolidinone was prepared by a reaction of potassium phthalimide and 3-(2-bromoethyl)-2-oxazolidinone, which was obtained through the alkaline ring closure of a mixture of carbonate and 2,2'-dibromo diethylamine prepared from diethanolamine. This was converted to N-[2-(2-bromoethylamino)ethyl] phthalimide hydrobromide by 30% HBr(gas) in acetic acid and N-(2-bromoethyl)-1,2-ethanediamine dihydrobromide was obtained by reacting the hydrobromide with a solution of HBr-HOAc. N-(2-bromoethyl)-1,3-propanediamine dihydrobromide could be prepared through the Cortese treatment of 2-(3-aminopropylamino) ethanol, which was prepared by a reaction of 1,3-diaminopropane and 2-chloroethanol. These dihydrobromides were treated by sodium thiophosphate in DMF to result S-2-(-aminoalkylamino) ethyl dihydrogen phosphorothioates. The characteristics of each reaction path were discussed in regards to reaction conditions and overall yields and a facile route of preparing each derivative was proposed.
Acid-catalysed reaction of L-arabinose with 2-chloroethanol, 2-bromoethanol or 2-iodoethanol at 50-60 °C, afforded the highly crystalline 2-haloethyl β-L-arabinopyranosides in 20%, 86% and 23% yields respectively, which each crystallised out directly from the reaction mixtures. Following O-acetylation of 2-bromoethyl β-L-arabinopyranoside, the bromo substituent underwent substitution by various nucleophilic anions (N3−, NCS−, AcS−, BzO−) to give the appropriate acetylated functionalised glycosides. O,S-Deacetylation of 2-(acetylthio)ethyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-β-L-arabinoside afforded 2-mercaptoethyl β-L-arabinopyranoside, but deblocking of the 2-thiocyanatoethyl 2,3,4-tri-O-acetyl-P-L-arabinoside in the same way afforded the thiol as a minor product, with the derived disulphide and methylthio derivatives as the major products. The origin of these compounds is discussed. Reaction of the 2-bromoethyl arabinoside with base afforded the as-fused bicycle 1,2-O-ethylene-β-L-arabinopyranose in high yield. Acetonation and subsequent oxidation of the 2-azidoethyl arabinoside gave the 2-ketone, reductive amination of which led to the trans-fused bicycle 2-amino-2-deoxy-1,2-O, N-ethylene-β-L-ribose. Chlorination of 2-chloroethyl β-L-arabinopyranoside with triphenylphosphine/carbon-tetrachloride, followed by treatment with base afforded 3,4-anhydro-1,2-O-ethylene-β-L-arabinopyranoside, ring-opening of which by azide proceeded regiospecifically to give the 4-azido-D-xylo isomer, which was reduced to the amine.
Nickel-impregnated phenolic resin precursor-based activated carbon fiber (ACF) was functionalized with pyridine and investigated for the adsorptive removal of 2-chloroethanol. Adsorption tests were carried out under flow conditions for different gas flow rates, solute concentrations, and temperatures in a perforated tubular adsorber. Various analytical and spectroscopic techniques, including X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and CHNSO elemental analysis, were used to characterize the adsorbents that have been prepared in this study. The results showed that the ACFs adsorbed significant amounts of 2-chloroethanol. Temperature had adverse effects on adsorption. At metallic concentrations in excess of 0.4 M of nickel, the formation of metal crystallites occurred, causing blockage of the pores and a decrease in the number of active metal sites. The functionalization of ACFs by pyridine was shown to produce a basic surface, resulting i...
3,3,3-Trichloropropyl-1-triphenylphosphonium chloride is conveniently prepared from 2-chloroethanol, triphenylphosphine, and trichloroacetic acid. Deprotonation of this reagent generates 3,3,3-trichloropropyl-1-triphenylphosphorane, which reacts with aldehydes to give trichloromethylated (Z)-olefins, which are useful for the synthesis of (Z)-1,3-enynes, (Z,Z)-1-chloro-1,3-dienes, and 1,3-diynes in high yields and stereospecificities.
Soluble in aqueous acids phthalocyanine ligands and metallophthalocyanines, containing the peripheral pyridine fragments were synthesized from the corresponding phthalodinitriles. The quaternization of the pyridine-containing phthalocyanines using 2-chloroethanol afforded water-soluble phthalocyanine ligands and metal complexes. The new compounds were characterized by NMR, EAS, and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry.
Materials and Methods.-Membrane preparations: Red blood cell membranes were prepared by the method of Dodge et al.1 from fresh human blood. Heme analyses' of several preparations showed uniformly that no more than 0.5% of the total protein present was hemoglobin. Membrane preparations from B. subtilis, strain 168, were prepared essentially by the procedure of Salton and Ehtisham-Ud-Din.' A low-speed centrifugation step was inserted to remove bacterial debris before the 39,000 X g centrifugation that brought down the membranes.3 Microscopic examination of both of these membrane preparations showed them to consist almost entirely of whole membranes. Solutions of each membrane preparation in 2-chloroethanol were prepared at 40 from lyophilized portions of the preparations.
Lipids were removed from red cell membranes by an isopropanol-chloroform extraction procedure.4 The precipitate which remained (mainly the protein portion of the membrane) was about 50% soluble in 2-chloroethanol. After removal of the solvent from the extracted membrane lipids, these were dissolved in 2-chloroethanol for ORD study. Lipid concentrations were determined by the organic phosphorus assay of Bartlett.' Reagents: Reagent grade 2-chloroethanol from several commercial sources was purified by distillation under reduced pressure. Sufficient concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to the purified 2-chloroethanol to give a pH of 2.69-2.71 when 1 vol of 2-chloroethanol was diluted with 9 vol of water." ORD and CD measurements and calculations: ORD and CD measurements were carried out at room temperature with a Durrum-Jasco UV-5 instrument.7 To calculate [m'], the reduced mean residue rotation, and 0, the mean molar ellipticity, the protein concentration is required. This was determined from the OD280 of 2-chloroethanol solutions prepared from measured amounts of the original membrane suspension. The OD280 of the 2-chloroethanol solution was related to the protein content by total acid hydrolysis and amino acid analysis on a modified Beckman 120
analyzer.8 The protein concentration was then calculated by summing all the amino acid residues and assuming a mean residue weight of 114. The refractive indices of the aqueous media were assumed to be identical to pure water.9 For 2-chloroethanol, the refractive index measurements of Foss and Schellman'0 were extrapolated into the wavelength region of interest.
Abstract Four large peptides from oxidized bovine pancreatic ribonuclease were examined by optical rotatory dispersion (ORD) to determine whether there were conformation differences between those which inhibited the immune reaction and those which did not. The peptides were characterized by amino acid analysis and their optical rotatory dispersion was studied at wavelenghts between 220 and 500 mμ. All four peptides were non-helical in neutral aqueous solution and not altered by dioxane or tetrahydrofuran. Urea and LiBr had only a small effect on the conformation of peptide 38–61. Addition of 2-chloroethanol or 2,2,2-trifluoroethanol increased the apparent helix content of peptides 38–61 and 40–61 up to 42%. These peptides are strong inhibitors of the oxidized RNase immune system. Peptide 11–31, which does not inhibit and peptide 105–124, a poor inhibitor, were little affected by the above solvents. The concentrations of these solvents required, to cause a conformational change, interfered with the precipitin reaction and did not allow analysis of the role of peptide conformation in the interaction with antibody.
The bacterial degradation and detoxification of chlorinated xenobiotic compounds requires the production of enzymes that are capable of recognizing and converting compounds which do not occur at significant concentrations in nature. We have studied the catabolic route of 1,2-dichloroethane as an example of a pathway for the conversion of such a synthetic compound. In strains of Xanthobacter and Ancylobacter that have been isolated on 1,2-dichloroethane, the first catabolic step is catalyzed by a hydrolytic haloalkane dehalogenase. The enzyme converts 1,2-dichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol but is also active with many other environmentally important haloalkanes such as methylchloride, methylbromide, 1,2-dibromoethane, epichlorohydrin, and 1,3-dichloropropene. Further degradation of 2-chloroethanol proceeds by oxidation to the carboxylic acid and dehalogenation to glycolate. The aldehyde dehydrogenase prevents toxicity of the reactive chloroacetaldehyde that is formed as an intermediate and is necessary for establishing a functional 2-chloroethanol degradative pathway in a strain that is not capable of growth on this compound.
The recombinates from human red cell membrane proteins and lipids resulting from dialysis of the components in 2-chloroethanol against aqueous buffers from pH2-12 have been studied by density gradient centrifugation, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and freeze-fracture electron microscopy. Between pH 4 and 10 most of the proteins were found in the recombinates whereas below pH 4 and above pH 10 only part of them were recovered in the lipoprotein band after density gradient centrifugation. At low pH, increasing incorporation of the "major glycoprotein" into the recombinates was detected by gel electrophoresis and in parallel increasing amounts of particles were found in the freeze-fracture membrane faces. The necessity of working at low pH values from pH 2-4, however, and a critical evaluation of all the data presently available leads to the conclusion that the 2-choloroethanol technique is not adequate for recombination studies tending to membrane reconsitution.
Reaction of styrene with chlorine dioxide under various conditions selectively produces 1-phenyl- 2-chloroethanone, with 1-phenyl-2-chloroethanol, 2-hydroxy-1-phenylethanone, (1,2-dichloroethyl)benzene, (2-chloro-1-phenyl)ethene, and (1,2,2-trichloroethyl)benzene isolated as reaction byproducts.
Abstract The geometrical structure and thermodynamic properties of the open-chain and cyclic cations formally derived by halogen nucleophilic displacement in 2-chloroethanol, 2-chloroethanethiol and in the corresponding 1,3-propane derivatives were calculated in the MO ab-initio approach with the extended 6-31G ∗ basis set. To set up a comparison between the stability of these cations and that of starting materials, 2-chloroethanol and 2-chloroethanethiol were also examined in the same calculation scheme in order to have a homogeneous conformational description of these two molecules in their ground states. The results show that both in terms of total electronic energy and free-energy content the cyclic ion is more stable than the open form, and this occurs for both the three- and four-membered rings. This stability order is enhanced in the case of the sulphur derivatives. As regards entropy contributions, these do not show appreciable differences in three- and four-membered cyclic ions, at least in comparison with other energy contributions. According to these calculations, the energy required for generating the cations from the starting materials is quite large: of the order of 180 kcal mol − . These reactions thus seem very unlikely to occur, unless ion-pair association and solvation lower the intermediate and transition-state energies. Accordingly, it is rather difficult to give a proper description of the transition state for intra- and intermolecular nucleophilic displacements in these systems and an attempt has been made to obtain a number of approximate conclusions by comparing the stability of intermediate cations. Intramolecular displacements thus appear to be favoured almost to the same extent, when three- and four-membered cyclic intermediates are formed, both entropically and as regards the energy content. Minor effects should thus be involved in decreasing the energy of activation of the process in the case of 1,2-ethane derivatives with respect to the corresponding 1,3-propane derivatives.
(1) Two procedures have been used to change the glutathione concentration in the livers of male rats. The glutathione level is increased to about double that of the controls, 0.5 h after the administration of cysteine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) and to about 25% that of controls, 1 h after the administration of 2-chloroethanol (30 mg/kg, i.p.). (2) The acute LD50 of retrorsine to rats (42 mg/kg) is increased by pretreatment with cysteine to 83 mg/kg and decreased by pre-treatment with chloroethanol to 23 mg/kg. In all three groups, deaths are accompanied by haemorrhagic centrilobular necrosis of the liver. (3) 2 h after the administration of retrorsine to rats (60 mg/kg), the levels of pyrrolic metabolites in the livers of animals pre-dosed with cysteine or chloroethanol are respectively about 60% and 200% those of rats given no pre-treatment. (4) Neither in the normal nor in the pre-treated rats dose retrorsine (60 mg/kg) cause a detectable fall in liver glutathione concentration 0.5-4 h after dosing. By 24 h, the glutathione concentration in the livers of the retrorsine-dosed rats is higher than those of the corresponding controls. There was no significant change in the liver weights of the treated rats relative to the controls. (5) Treatment of rats with retrorsine (60 mg/kg) causes a fall in the liver concentrations of cytochrome P-450, 24 h after dosing. This loss of cytochrome P-450 is increased in rats pre-treated with chloroethanol. The concentrations of cytochrome b5 in the same animals are not significantly reduced.
The bacterial degradation and detoxification of chlorinated xenobiotic compounds requires the production of enzymes that are capable of recognizing and converting compounds which do not occur at significant concentrations in nature. We have studied the catabolic route of 1,2-dichloroethane as an example of a pathway for the conversion of such a synthetic compound. In strains of Xanthobacter and Ancylobacter that have been isolated on 1,2-dichloroethane, the first catabolic step is catalyzed by a hydrolytic haloalkane dehalogenase. The enzyme converts 1,2-dichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol but is also active with many other environmentally important haloalkanes such as methylchloride, methylbromide, 1,2-dibromoethane, epichlorohydrin, and 1,3-dichloropropene. Further degradation of 2-chloroethanol proceeds by oxidation to the carboxylic acid and dehalogenation to glycolate. The aldehyde dehydrogenase prevents toxicity of the reactive chloroacetaldehyde that is formed as an intermediate and is necessary for establishing a functional 2-chloroethanol degradative pathway in a strain that is not capable of growth on this compound. -Environ Health Perspect 103(Suppl 5): 29-32 (1995) 
Abstract-Reaction of styrene with chlorine dioxide under various conditions selectively produces 1-phenyl-2-chloroethanone, with 1-phenyl-2-chloroethanol, 2-hydroxy-1-phenylethanone, (1,2-dichloroethyl)benzene, (2-chloro-1-phenyl)ethene, and (1,2,2-trichloroethyl)benzene isolated as reaction byproducts.
OBJECTIVE Cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) receptor is involved in whole-body and cellular energy metabolism. We asked whether CB1 receptor stimulation was able to decrease mitochondrial biogenesis in different metabolically active tissues of obese high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS The effects of selective CB1 agonist arachidonyl-2-chloroethanolamide (ACEA) and endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol on endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression were examined, as were mitochondrial DNA amount and mitochondrial biogenesis parameters in cultured mouse and human white adipocytes. These parameters were also investigated in white adipose tissue (WAT), muscle, and liver of mice chronically treated with ACEA. Moreover, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation was investigated in WAT and isolated mature adipocytes from eNOS −/− and wild-type mice. eNOS, p38 MAPK, adenosine monophosphate–activated protein kinase (AMPK), and mitochondrial biogenesis were investigated in WAT, muscle, and liver of HFD mice chronically treated with ACEA. RESULTS ACEA decreased mitochondrial biogenesis and eNOS expression, activated p38 MAPK, and reduced AMPK phosphorylation in white adipocytes. The ACEA effects on mitochondria were antagonized by nitric oxide donors and by p38 MAPK silencing. White adipocytes from eNOS −/− mice displayed higher p38 MAPK phosphorylation than wild-type animals under basal conditions, and ACEA was ineffective in cells lacking eNOS. Moreover, mitochondrial biogenesis was downregulated, while p38 MAPK phosphorylation was increased and AMPK phosphorylation was decreased in WAT, muscle, and liver of ACEA-treated mice on a HFD. CONCLUSIONS CB1 receptor stimulation decreases mitochondrial biogenesis in white adipocytes, through eNOS downregulation and p38 MAPK activation, and impairs mitochondrial function in metabolically active tissues of dietary obese mice.
HgI2 crystallizes under ambient conditions from various solvents and by sublimation into three concomitant polymorphs whose colors are red, orange, and yellow. The orange and yellow phases are metastable and transform into the red phase when touched. A phase transition from red to yellow occurs at 400 K. The reverse transition from yellow to red shows a huge hysteresis. We established that the structures of the metastable yellowM phase (determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction) and the high-temperature yellowHT phase (determined by powder synchrotron X-ray diffraction and second-harmonic generation) are different, albeit closely related. Both show analogous packings of IHgI molecules, which are straight in the first and bent with an angle of ca. 160° in the second. The red and orange phases are tetrahedral semiconductor structures that sublime even at room temperature. The growth of the yellowM phase from 2-chloroethanol and the kinetics of the reconstructive phase transition red to yellowHT and back were studied by optical microscopy, Raman spectroscopy in solution, luminescence, and powder synchrotron X-ray diffraction as a function of time at various temperatures. Both yellow phases grow by accretion of HgI2 molecules, present in the solution or liberated from the red crystals, on the surface of the crystal. In contrast, the reverse transformation from yellow to red occurs in the bulk of the crystal, presumably by migration of Hg in the packing of I and subsequent rearrangement of I. The displacement parameters of Hg in both structures are considerably larger than those of I and apparently not dominated by disorder effects.
Biodegradation of 1,2-dichloroethane by the strain Xanthobacter autotrophicusGJ10 passes through the formation of toxic intermediates, like 2-chloroethanol and chloro-acetaldehyde. This adverse effect could be minimized by their deliberate anodic oxidation in constant electric field.The present work presents the mathematical modelling of these processes taking into account the electric field influence on biomass growth and the effect of substrate and product inhibition. The experiments comprises control one (i.e. without application of electric field) and ones at electric field application at different anode potentials within 0.753 and 0.903 V vs. the potential of the normal hydrogen electrode. The effect of the electric field on microbial specific growth rate and on the rate of microbial decay was estimated quantitatively in terms of the corresponding rate constants. Additionally, the accumulation and the decay of the intermediates were taken into account.The results of the mathematical modelling showed that the effect of the electric field is strongly positive on the microbial growth and best kinetic parameters were observed at certain anode potential, i.e. at 0.803 V/S.H.E. The maximum specific growth rate in this case is 0.90 h\textsuperscript{-1}, i.e. three times higher than for the reference experiment. The rate constant of decay of the intermediates is almost four times higher than for the reference experiment. [1] D.B. Janssen, A. Scheper, L. Dijkhuizen, B. Witholt, Degradation of halogenated aliphatic compounds by Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 1985, 49, 673--677.[2] A. Mileva, Ts. Sapundzhiev, V. Beschkov, Modeling 1,2-dichloroethane biodegradation by Klebsiella oxytoca VA 8391 immobilized on granulated activated carbon, Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 2008, 31, 75--85.
Procedures were developed and tested for the determination of residues of 2-chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin, ECH) in honey, beeswax, and pollen. Recoveries of ECH from fortified samples averaged 91, 87, and 89%, respectively, for each substrate. The maximum amount of ECH found in substrate fumigated with ethylene oxide was 36 micrograms/g in honey, 124 micrograms/g in beeswax, and 132 micrograms/g in pollen. A tendency was noted for darker waxes, which contain larger amounts of naturally occurring chlorides than light-colored waxes, to contain the greater amounts of ECH. A gas-liquid chromatograph equipped with a Dohrmann halogen-specific detector was used for identification and quantitation.
The effects of selective CB1 agonist arachidonyl-2-chloroethanolamide (ACEA) and endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol on endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression were examined, as were mitochondrial DNA amount and mitochondrial biogenesis parameters in cultured mouse and human white adipocytes. These parameters were also investigated in white adipose tissue (WAT), muscle, and liver of mice chronically treated with ACEA. Moreover, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation was investigated in WAT and isolated mature adipocytes from eNOS Ϫ/Ϫ and wild-type mice. eNOS, p38 MAPK, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and mitochondrial biogenesis were investigated in WAT, muscle, and liver of HFD mice chronically treated with ACEA.
This chapter reviews linear and branched C7 to C18 monohydric aliphatic alcohols as well as aromatic, alicyclic, aliphatic unsaturated, and aliphatic halogenated alcohols. The CAS registry number and molecular structures have been provided for all of the alcohols, except for the oxo alcohols. These alcohols are mixtures of isomeric alcohols with the same molecular formula, with the composition and CAS registry number dependent on the olefin feedstock. ::: ::: ::: ::: The physical and chemical properties for these alcohols are listed. The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has prepared a rating system to assess the physical and chemical hazards of chemicals with respect to flammability, health, and reactivity. In general, these alcohols are not reactive chemicals, except for the unsaturated alcohols. ::: ::: ::: ::: The most important commercial member of the heptanols is isoheptyl alcohol, which is a mixture of branched C7 alcohols. This alcohol is used for the manufacture of esters such as phthalate plasticizers. 1-Heptanol has little commercial value. Other C7 alcohols are 2,3-dimethyl-1-pentanol and the secondary alcohols, 2-heptanol, 3-heptanol, 4-heptanol, and 2,4-dimethyl-3-pentanol. 2-Heptanol and 3-heptanol can exist as enantiomers. ::: ::: ::: ::: The available toxicity data indicate that heptanols have a low order of acute toxicity and no occupational exposure standards exist for them. ::: ::: ::: ::: The most important commercial C8 alcohols are 2-ethylhexanol and a mixture of branched C8 alcohols referred to as isooctyl alcohol. Other octanols of lesser commercial interest are 2-octanol, 1-octanol, 3,5-dimethyl-1-hexanol, 2,2,4-trimethyl-1-pentanol, and 2-ethyl-4-methyl-1-pentanol. These alcohols are liquids at ambient temperature and are used primarily in producing esters, such as plasticizers. No occupational exposure standards exist for octanols except for isooctyl alcohol. ::: ::: ::: ::: The most important commercial members of this subgroup of alcohols are the C9 oxo alcohols, which are a mixture of predominantly C9 branched alcohols, diisobutyl carbinol, and 2,6-dimethyl-4-heptanol. Two C9 alcohols of lesser commercial importance are 1-nonanol and 3,5,5-trimethyl-1-hexanol. All of these alcohols are liquids at ambient temperatures. ::: ::: ::: ::: Acute studies in animals indicate a low order of toxicity. These alcohols are irritating to the skin, eyes, and respiratory tract. They are also aspirations hazard. No serious adverse effects from industrial exposure were reported in humans. Prolonged or excessive exposure to the alcohols can produce local irritation and narcosis. No occupational exposure standards have been established for any of the nonanols. ::: ::: ::: ::: The decanols consist of more than 20 structural isomers, including a number of enantiomers. The most important commercial members are the C10 oxo alcohols, which exist as a mixture of C10 branched alcohols. Many of these alcohols are liquids. Unlike the lower alcohols, the decanols are less volatile and flammable. Toxicity studies indicate that these alcohols have a low order of acute toxicity but they are irritating to both the skin and eyes. No serious industrial intoxication has been reported for the decanols. No occupational exposure standards exist for the decanols. ::: ::: ::: ::: Dodecanols consist of more than 20 structural isomers, including a number of enantiomers. The two most prominent members of this group of alcohols are 1-dodecanol and isodecyl alcohol, a mixture of predominantly C12 branched alcohols. Toxicity studies indicate that dodecanols have a low order of acute toxicity. 1-Dodecanol is the most studied C12 alcohol and is a tumor promoter in mice. There have been no reports of adverse effects in humans. No occupational exposure standards have been established for any of the decanols. ::: ::: ::: ::: There are at least five aromatic alcohols of commercial interest; three primary alcohols (benzyl alcohol, 2-phenylethanol, and p-tolyl alcohol) and two secondary alcohols (1-phenylethanol and 2-phenyl-2-propanol). All of these alcohols are liquids at ambient temperatures. No valid NIOSH methods exist to measure these alcohols in air. ::: ::: ::: ::: The toxicities of benzyl alcohol and 2-phenylethanol are the most studied of the aromatic alcohols. As a group, these alcohols have a low to moderate order of acute toxicity and have been both active and inactive in genotoxicity assays. No occupational exposure standards have been set for these alcohols. ::: ::: ::: ::: There are at least four alicyclic alcohols of commercial interest, two from the cyclohexyl family (cyclohexanol, methylcyclohexanols) and two from the furan family (furfuryl alcohol and tetrahydrofuran methanol). These alcohols are liquids. Cyclohexanol and furfuryl alcohol are the best studied alcohols of this group. Occupational exposure standards exist for these alcohols, except for tetrahydrofuran methanol. ::: ::: ::: ::: Unsaturated alcohols can be divided into olefinic (double-bond) and acetylenic (triple-bond) alcohols. Allyl alcohol is the most important olefinic alcohol as well as the most studied in this subset; propargyl alcohol and hexynol alcohol are the most commercially important acetylenic alcohols. There are also a number of other olefinic alcohols (C5) and acetylenic alcohols (C4 to C10) with toxicity data. In general, these alcohols are liquids and are quite reactive. Occupational exposure standards exist for allyl alcohol and propargyl alcohol. ::: ::: ::: ::: The most important commercial members of the halogenated alcohol series are 2-chloroethanol, or ethylene chlorohydrin, and chloropropanols, which are two isomers. These three alcohols exist as volatile liquids. ::: ::: ::: Keywords: ::: ::: Heptanols; ::: Nonanols; ::: Decanols; ::: Dodecanols; ::: Tridecanols; ::: Aromatic alcohols; ::: Alicyclic alcohols; ::: Halogenated alcohols; ::: Vapors
Abstract The hemoglobin molecule lost part of its α-helical structure when its tertiary structure was disrupted by the addition of 2-chloroethanol. The molecular weight was reduced to one-fourth. The observed decrease in helix content was directly in parallel with the decrease in the magnitude of the Cotton effect in the Soret absorption band. This phenomenon was attributed to the dependence of the secondary structure formation on the interaction between peptide chains and the prosthetic heme group. In 20 to 50% of aqueous 2-chloroethanol, the hemoglobin molecule assumes a partially helical random coil, and it was characterized by the measurement of intrinsic viscosity, by the effect of temperature on its structure, and by fast deuterium exchange of the amide hydrogens. In aqueous 2-chloroethanol solution of more than 50%, the fraction of helix in the peptide chain increased along with the concentration of 2-chloroethanol. This was found to be a common phenomenon for denatured proteins of various kinds.
A specific, precise, rapid and sensitive method for the analysis of oxalic acid in urine is described. This microanalytical procedure can detect concentrations of urinary oxalic acid as low as 4 mg/l with a relative standard deviation of replicates of less than 5% (24-h urine collections). 10% BCl3:2-chloroethanol is used to derivatize 0.1 ml of urine after evaporation to dryness or lyophilization. The bis-2-chloroethyl ester of oxalic acid formed is extracted into ethyl acetate/isopropyl ether (1:3, v/v) and is detected by electron capture gas chromatography at the 50 pg level. The total analysis time for 35 samples in 8 h per GC column. A series of determinations of urinary oxalic acid in 21 kidney stone-forming patients resulted in values ranging from 10.6 to 42.0 mg/24 h with a mean recovery of added oxalic acid of 98.2% (range 84.0-111.3%).
[804482-50-6] C21H19Cl4P (MW 444.16) ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: (three-carbon homologation reagent) ::: ::: ::: ::: Physical Data: mp 138–145 °C. ::: ::: ::: ::: Solubility: sol alcohol, halogenated solvents. ::: ::: ::: ::: Form Supplied in: white crystals. ::: ::: ::: ::: Purification: recrystallized from dichloromethane. ::: ::: ::: ::: Preparative Methods: prepared in three steps starting from 2-chloroethanol. The alcohol was heated with slight excess of triphenylphosphine at 100 °C to afford β-hydroxyethyl triphenylphosphonium chloride. Dehydration of this phosphonium chloride was accomplished by heating with oxalyl chloride. Trichloromethide, generated by heating trichloroacetic acid in acetonitrile, was added to vinyl triphenylphosphonium chloride to give the desired phosphonium salt (eq 1). ::: ::: (1)
Thiodiacetic acid is a well known metabolite of some medicines and various small reactive mole cules. Many 1,2-disubstituted ethane derivatives, e.g. 1,2-dichloroethane (Payan et al., 1993), 2-bromoethanol (Jones and Wells, 1981) and 2-chloroethanol (Grunow and Altman, 1982) to S-carboxymethyl cysteine (Müller and Norpoth, 1977; Müller and Norpoth, 1978) which finally leads to thiodiacetic acid (Yllner, 1971; Müller et al., 1976; Müller and Norpoth. 1978) .
Thiodiacetic acid is a well known metabolite of some medicines and various small reactive mole cules. Many 1,2-disubstituted ethane derivatives, e.g. 1,2-dichloroethane (Payan et al., 1993) , 2-bromoethanol (Jones and Wells, 1981) and 2-chloroethanol (Grunow and Altman, 1982) are metabo lised by conjugation with glutathione. In addition vinylchloride (Müller et al., 1976) , 1,1-dichloro ethylene (Reichert et al., 1979) , acrylonitrile (Kedderis et al., 1993) and also drugs like fotemustine (Brakenhoff et al., 1993), mitozolomide (Gachon et al., 1993) or chlomethiazole (Grupe and Spiteller, 1982) are converted to glutathione con jugates. All these conjugates are further degraded to S-carboxymethyl cysteine (Müller and Norpoth, 1977; Müller and Norpoth, 1978) which finally leads to thiodiacetic acid (Yllner, 1971; Müller et al., 1976; Müller and Norpoth. 1978) .
The degradation of 1,2-dichloroethane and 2-chloroethanol by Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 proceeds via chloroacetaldehyde, a reactive and potentially toxic intermediate. The organism produced at least three different aldehyde dehydrogenases, of which one is plasmid encoded. Two mutants of strain GJ10, designated GJ10M30 and GJ10M41, could no longer grow on 2-chloroethanol and were found to lack the NAD-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase that is the predominant protein in wild-type cells growing on 2-chloroethanol. Mutant GJ10M30, selected on the basis of its resistance to 1,2-dibromoethane, also had lost haloalkane dehalogenase activity and Hg resistance, indicating plasmid loss. From a gene bank of strain GJ10, different clones that complemented one of these mutants were isolated. In both transconjugants, the aldehyde dehydrogenase that was absent in the mutants was overexpressed. The enzyme was purified and was a tetrameric protein of 55-kDa subunits. The substrate range was rather broad, with the highest activity measured for acetaldehyde. The K(m) value for chloroacetaldehyde was 160 muM, higher than those for other aldehydes tested. It is concluded that the ability of GJ10 to grow with 2-chloroethanol is due to the high expression level of an aldehyde dehydrogenase with a rather low activity for chloroacetaldehyde.
The 26-residue peptide of sequence KEALYILMVLGFFGFFTLGIMLSYIR, which contains the single putative transmembrane domain of a small protein that is associated with slow voltage-gated K+ channels, has been incorporated in bilayers of dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine by dialysis from 2-chloroethanol to form complexes of homogeneous lipid/peptide ratio. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy indicates that the peptide is integrated in the lipid bilayer wholly in a beta-sheet conformation. The electron spin resonance spectra of spin-labeled lipids in the lipid/peptide complexes contain a component corresponding to lipids whose chains are motionally restricted in a manner similar to those of lipids at the hydrophobic surface of integral transmembrane proteins. From the dependence of the lipid spin label spectra on the lipid/peptide ratio of the complexes, it is found that ca. 2.5 lipids per peptide monomer, independent of the species of spin-labeled lipid, are motionally restricted by direct interaction with the peptide in the bilayer. This value would be consistent with, e.g., a beta-barrel structure for the peptide in which the beta-strands either are strongly tilted or have a reverse turn at their center. A preferential selectivity of interaction with the peptide is observed for the negatively charged spin-labeled lipids phosphatidic acid, stearic acid, and phosphatidylserine, which indicates close proximity of the positively charged residues at the peptide termini to the lipid headgroups. The saturation-transfer electron spin resonance spectra of the peptide spin-labeled at a cysteine residue replacing Leu18 evidence rather slow rotational diffusion in the lipid complexes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The reaction of 2,4-dinitroimidazole (1) with 2-chloroethanol, 3-chloropropanoI or 3-chloropropionitrile gives 2-chloro-4- nitroimidazole (7) and not 4-chloro-5-nitroimidazole (3) as claimed in earlier literature. 1 and 2-bromoethanoI likewise yield 2- bromo-4-nitroimidazole(ll). 7 is methylated to isomeric methyl derivatives 8 and 13 and 11 to 12 and 14. In the reaction of 1 with 3-chloropropionitrile, other products 9, 10 and 16 have been isolated. 1 is unaffected by 2-chloropentane. 2-Chloroethanol and 1-methyl-2,4-dinitroimidazole (2) afford 8. HCI formed from hot 2-chloroethanol in the presence of nitroimidazoles seems to be responsible for the displacement of N02 group at position-2 with chlorine. 1 and propylene oxide yield imidazooxazoline (18) and the dinitro alcohol (19) along with a small amount of the isomer 20. 19 is transformed to imidazooxazoline (21) by excess propylene oxide or piperidine. 7 and propylene oxide afford isomeric alcohols 26 and 27, the latter being readily transformed to 18. Piperidine opens the oxazoline ring in 18 to yield 25. 1H and 13CNMR data are used to derive new structures.
A new esterification procedure was developed to form 2-chloroethyl esters for 10 common herbicidal acids, using dicyclohexyl carbodiimide and 2-chloroethanol. This reagent was found to be more desirable than the commonly used boron trichloride/2-chloroethanol reagent. Maximum esterification was given for picloram at a lower reaction temperature with a shorter reaction time. Also, maximum esterification of dicamba and 2,3,6-TBA was achieved. The boron trichloride/2-chlorethanol gave poor or little esterification with these 2 acids under the various conditions investigated. The effect of solvents on esterification with the 2 reagents was also explored.
In this investigation Salmonella typhimurium strain TA 1530 and TA 1535 were combined with isolated perfused rat liver. Samples of perfusate and bile produced were tested for mutagenicity after treatment with 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE), 1,2-dibromoethane (DBE) or 2-chloroethanol. The results are in good agreement with our previous experiments which indicate that both DEC and DBE are activated through conjugation with glutathione (GSH). Most GSH conjugates are normally excreted in bile. Following liver perfusion the bile was highly mutagenic after DCE and DBE treatments, while 2-chloroethanol did not have this effect. The highest mutagenic effect was seen 15--30 min after the addition of DCE or DBE. The production of mutagenic bile also occurred in mice treated in vivo with DCE. One possible metabolic endproduct of a GSH conjugate is the corresponding mercapturic acid. Thus synthetic N-acetyl-S-(2-chloroethyl)-L-cysteine was tested on TA 1535 and found to be as mutagenic as S-(2-chloroethyl)-L-cysteine in the concentration range 0.2--0.6 mumol/plate. Differences and similarities in the metabolism of DCE and vinyl chloride are discussed on the basis of these results.
A method for screening of short-chain chlorinated-hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria is described. It uses as a criterium for selection the liberation of protons and change in color of a pH indicator rather than growth on the compound as sole carbon source. The usefulness of indicator plates is demonstrated with several bacteria, known to degrade certain chlorinated hydrocarbons. Bacteria-degrading volatile compounds can be isolated with a medium containing a second carbon source. A correlation between proton liberation and liberation of chloride or disappearance of 2-chloroethanol from the medium is demonstrated as an example. The method should be useful in isolating bacteria for the decontamination of respective commodities.
Abstract The composition of gaseous 3-chloropropan-1-ol at 115°C and 367°C, and the molecular structures of the rotational conformers have been investigated by electron diffraction aided by results from ab initio ( HF 6-31 G ∗ ) molecular orbital calculations. The mole fractions of the two conformers capable in principle of forming intramolecular OH⋯Cl hydrogen bonds was found to be only 0.04 (14) and 0.05 (24) at the lower and higher temperatures, in good agreement with the theoretical prediction of 0.017 at 0 K, but substantially less than that estimated from an earlier electron diffraction study. Our result stands in contrast to that for 2-chloroethanol where the gauche conformer dominates the vapor-phase composition, presumably in large part because of intramolecular hydrogen bonding. The parameter values of 3-chloropropan-1-ol are unexceptional. Some of the more important ones ( r g A , ∠ α deg ) at 115°C with estimates of 2σ uncertainties are 〈 r (CC〉 = 1.527 (5), r (C O C) = 1.547 (12), r (CC Cl ) = 1.497 (12), 〈 r (CH〉 = 1.099 (9), r (CO) = 1.424 (6), r (CCl) = 1.803 (4), ∠(COH) = 107.3 (assumed), ∠(CCCl) = 111.6 (11), [∠( CCC ) + ∠( CCO )] 2 = 110.3 (11) , ∠(CCC) − ∠(CCO) = 3.7 (assumed); assumed values are from the theoretical calculations.
The photodegradation of polymethylmethacrylate solutions in 2-chloroethanol has been investigated as a function of irradiation time, polymer concentration, temperature and light intensity. The random chain scission initiation reaction is dependent on polymer concentration. At elevated temperatures (54‡ to 159 ‡C) the absorption peak at 2240 a increases with irradiation time. This increase has been shown to be a measure of the amount of monomer formed during photolysis and the rate of monomer formation as a Function of temperature has been measured in this way. Thermal degradation is negligible under the experimental conditions. The energy of activation for monomer formation is 8.9 kcal/mole and the light intensity exponent 0.66, indicating a second order termination reaction. Values for the kinetic chain lengths as a function of temperature have been derived. The kinetics of a process consisting of direct random photolysis of the polymer plus random scission due to solvent radicals, followed by a depropagation reaction (monomer formation) and second order termination has been formulated, which is in quite satisfactory agreement with the experimental results. The termination reaction is not only diffusion controlled in the bulk polymer but also in fairly dilute polymer solutions (ca. 0.1%w/v and larger).
Studies on highly purified repressor of the lac operon in Escherichia, coli by optical rotatory dispersion and circular dichroism has led to an estimate that it contains 33–38% of α-helix and 18–27% of β-structure. Effect of urea and 2-chloroethanol on the secondary structure of the repressor was studied. Effect of sodium dodecyl sulfate on the circular dichroism of repressor is discussed in relation to dissociation of repressor into subunits.
sec-Dodecyl ethers of ethyleneglycol, 2-chloroethanol, and 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol have been prepared by reacting 1-dodecene with the corresponding substituted alcohol in the presence of BF3 as a catalyst.
Various spectroscopic methods predict that an intram olecular hydrogen b o n d in g 1 is operating in 2-chloroethanol. The aim of this work is to report the NMR spectrum of oriented 2-chloroethanol ( Figure 1 ). The nematic phase Merck V was used and the spectrum ( Fig. 2 ) was recorded with a Jeol PS-100 instrument. All inform ation about the coupling of the carboxylic proton (H5) is lost be cause of its exchange with the nematic phase. The system has therefore effectively four spins. The spec trum was analysed with a modified 2 LAOCOONOR program . Two sets of coupling constants can be deduced that equally well reproduce the experimen tal data: a) System of four spins with Cov symmetry. The calculated direct and indirect coupling constants are given in Table 1 . The interatomic distances are con nected with the coupling constants 3 and the follow ing values are obtained:
The ultrasonic velocity () and density () of ternary mixture of formamide (FA) + N-methylformamide (NMF) + 2-chloroethanol (2-CletOH) have been measured at temperatures 298.15, 308.15 and 318.15 K, over the entire composition range. From the experimental values of ultrasonic velocity and density, adiabatic compressibility (), intermolecular free length (), molar sound velocity (), molar compressibility () and specific acoustic impedance () have been calculated. The excess values of ultrasonic velocity (), adiabatic compressibility () and molar volume () were also calculated. Further, the infrared spectra have been recorded at room temperature (298.15 K) and found to be useful for understanding the presence of extensive hydrogen bonding between oxygen atom of C=O group of FA and NMF molecules and hydrogen atom of the H–O group of 2-CletOH molecule in the present liquid mixture.
The preferential solvation of poly(methacrylic acid) and poly(sodium methacrylate) in waterdioxane mixtures was investigated by means of specific refractive index increment measurements on dialysed and undialysed solutions. The correlation with the solvent-induced conformational transition of poly(methacrylic acid) was also studied. Potentiometric titrations indicate that this transition occurs at around 25–30 vol.-% of dioxane. Comparison with previous results on poly(acrylic acid) and poly(sodium acrylate) in the same solvent system and on poly(methacrylic acid) in water-2-chloroethanol mixtures, shows differences in the mode of solvation of the compact conformation. It is suggested that this may be dependent on the existence of water-organic solvent specific interactions such as the formation of a water-dioxane hydrogen-bonded complex.
Abstract The vibrational overtone spectra of gaseous biphenyl, anthracene, isobutanol, 2-chloroethanol and ethylenediamine at the Δv=4 vibrational overtone region have been recorded and assigned using the local mode model. For the spectral assignments, linear correlations were determined between the ab initio bond lengths (calculated in this work) and the overtone transition energies (taken from the literature) of aromatic and nonaromatic hydrocarbons, alcohols and amines. The bond lengths were obtained from ab initio geometry optimizations using both the 3-21G * and the 6-31G ** basis sets. The bond length–overtone transition wavenumber correlations for the OH, NH and aromatic, methyl and methylenic CH oscillators are presented for the Δv=4 region for both basis sets. The bond lengths (CH for biphenyl and anthracene, OH for isobutanol and 2-chloroethanol and NH for ethylenediamine) were also determined. These bond lengths were used to predict the transition wavenumbers for Δv=4 transitions which could then be compared to the experimental values. These predictions which accounted for the possibility of various conformations agreed well with the experiment.
The transition structures and the activation energies for the possible thermal elimination of H2O, HF and HCl from ethane-1,2-diol, 2-fluoroethanol and 2-chloroethanol respectively, were investigated. The relative stabilities and associated barrier heights of syn and anti vinyl alcohol isomers and their acetaldehyde tautomer were estimated. HF, DFT/B3LYP and MP2 methods at 3-21G, 6-31+G(d), 6-311++G(d,p) and aug-cc-pvdz basis sets were applied to identify the stationary points of the studied systems. The optimized geometries and electronic energies of reactants, transition states and products were analyzed. The dependence of these properties upon the theoretical level was discussed. A concerted proton release and a hydroxide or halide ion expulsion mechanism was proposed to account for the thermal rearrangement of reactants to products. A thorough understanding of syn vinyl alcohol preference is provided by performing natural bond orbital (NBO) analysis. The oxygen atom lone pair (LP) and periplanar hyper...
3-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2-naphthayl)-2,3-epoxypropanone (2) react with thiourea and urea to give 4-(4-chlorophenyl)hexahydro-6-(2-naphthyl)-2- thioxopyrimidine-5-one (3) and 4-(4-chlorophenyl)hexahydro-6-(2- naphthyl)pyrimidine-2,5-dione (4) respectively. Reaction of (3) with each of bromoacetic acid and 2-bromopropionic acid produced thiazolo[3,2- a]pyrimidine-3,6-diones (5) and 2-methyl-thiazolo[3,2-a]pyrim- idine-3,6- dione (6) successively. Also some new derivatives (7-14) were prepared fromthe reaction of compounds (3) and (5)with different reagent. Compound (3) was glycosidated with chloroethyl methyl ether and 2-chloroethanol to afford compound (15) and (16); newly synthesized compounds were tested for their antimicrobial evaluation. Among the assayed compounds derivatives (14a), (3), (8b), (8c) and (14b) showed the highest effect compared with the other tested compounds but not more than the satandered.
Abstract The i.r. spectra of 2-chloroethanol and its OD-deuterated analogue have been recorded in argon and nitrogen matrices and in the gas phase. Raman spectra in the liquid state have been recorded. A vibrational assignment, supported by normal coordinate calculations, is presented. A conformational change from gauche to trans conformer was noted under the i.r. beam.
2-Chloroethanol (2-CE) is a widely used industrial solvent. In Taiwan, Taiwanese farmers apply 2-CE on grape-vines to accelerate grape growth, a practice that in some cases have caused poisoning in humans. Thus, there is strong interest in identifying antidotes to 2-CE. This study examines the protective role in 2-CE intoxicated rats. Alcohol dehydrogenase and glutathione were hypothesized to be important in the metabolism of 2-CE. This study used fomepizole, an alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor, and chemicals that affected glutathione metabolism to study 2-CE toxicity. Notably, fomepizole 5 mg/kg significantly increased median lethal dose (LD(50)) of 2-CE from 65.1 to 180 mg/kg and reduced the production of a potential toxic metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) in animal plasma. In contrast, disulfiram (DSF), an aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitor, increased the toxicity of 2-CE on the lethality in rats. Additional or pretreatment with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) and fomepizole significantly reduced plasma CAA concentrations. Fomepizole also significantly reduced 2-CEinhibited glutathione activity. Otherwise, pretreatment with NAC for 4 days followed by co-treatment with fomepizole significantly decreased formation of the metabolic CAA. These results indicated that its catalytic enzyme might play a vital role during 2-CE intoxication, and the combination of fomepizole and NAC could be a protective role in cases of acute 2-CE intoxication.
Previously, three separate, one-dimensional electrophoresis separations have been required to determine the gliadin and high and low molecular weight glutenin subunit compositions of wheat. A method is described here in which only two electrophoresis steps are necessary. After protein extraction with 2-chloroethanol, gliadin composition was determined first by fractionation using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis at acid pH (A-PAGE). The unreduced polymeric proteins present in the first few millimetres of the A-PAGE gels below the sample wells were then reduced and separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). These proteins yielded polypeptide patterns that were characteristic of the high and low molecular weight subunits of glutenin.
1-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazole (2) was formed by the reaction of 5-amino-1-(2-hydroxyethyl)tetrazole (1) and 100 % HNO3. Compound 1 was obtained by alkylation of 5-amino-1H-tetrazole with 2-chloroethanol. Nitrogen-rich salts such as the ammonium (3), hydroxylammonium (4), guanidinium (5), aminoguanidinium (6), diaminoguanidinium (7), triaminoguanidinium (8), azidoformamidinium (9), and diaminouronium (10) 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-5-nitriminotetrazolate were prepared by deprotonation or metathesis reactions. Compounds 3–10 were fully characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction (except for 9 and 10), vibrational spectroscopy (IR and Raman), multinuclear NMR spectroscopy, elemental analysis, and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) measurements. The heats of formation of 4–10 were calculated by the atomization method based on CBS-4M enthalpies. With these values and the X-ray densities, several detonation parameters such as the detonation pressure, velocity, energy, and temperature were computed using the EXPLO5 code. In addition their sensitivities towards impact, friction, and electrical discharge were tested using a BAM drophammer, a friction tester, and a small-scale electrical discharge device.
Methylation of 2-chloro-4-nitroimidazole (6), obtained from imidazole in four steps, either with dimethyl sulphate or with diazomethane affords a mixture of 2-chloro-l-methyl-5-nitroimidazole (10) and the 4-nitro-isomer (7). The corresponding dinitro compounds 11 and 8 are formed in the methylation of 2,4-dinitroimidazole (5), 8 being converted to 7 by the action of POCl3. Reaction of 10 with the sodium salt of N-methanesulphonyl-2-imidazolidinone provides the potent amoebicide, 1-methylsulphonyl-3-(1-methyl-5-nitroimidazol-2-yl)-2-imidazolidinone (2). The isomer 14 is synthesised from 7 in low yield. Ethylation of 5 leads to preponderant N-alkylation, providing a mixture of l-ethyldinitroimidazoles (9) and (12), but a small amount of N,C-diethyl derivative 15 is also obtained. The formation of 15 from 5 is rationalised. The diiodination product of imidazole is shown to be 4,5-diiodoimidazole (19), nitric acid transforming it to 4-iodo-5-nitroimidazole (20). Methylation of 20 affords a mixture of isomeric 1 -methyliodonitro derivatives (21) and (22). The structures of 21 and 22 are established by 13C NMR data as well as by conversion into morpholine derivatives 26 and 24 respectively which also arise from 1-methylchloronitroimidazoles (25) and (23). A mechanism is proposed for the reported conversion of 5 into 4-chloro-5-nitroimidazole (32) in boiling 2-chloroethanol.
A strain of Pseudomonas putida was isolated that was able to degrade 2-chloroethanol. The degradation proceeded via 2-chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. In crude extracts the enzymes for this degradation pathway could be detected. All enzymes proved to be inducible. The dehalogenase that catalyzed the dehalogenation of chloroacetate to glycolate was further characterized. It consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular mass of 28 kDa. After induction the dehalogenase was expressed at a high level. In a mutant resistant to high concentrations of 2-chloroethanol the dehalogenase was no longer expressed. The mechanism of resistance seemed to be due to the inability to convert chloroacetate and export of this compound out of the cell.
Aerobic biodegradation of DCA was first demonstrated in 1983 by Stucki et al. (16). The isolated Pseudomonas sp. strain DE2, is able to grow on DCA as the sole source of carbon and energy with a growth rate of 0.08 h Ϫ1 at 30°C. A strain studied in more detail is Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ10 (11, 12) . This strain was isolated from a mixture of activated sludge and contaminated soil. The first step in DCA metabolism in X. autotrophicus GJ10 is a hydrolytic dehalogenation to 2-chloroethanol, which is subsequently converted to chloroacetaldehyde by an alcohol dehydrogenase (12). Chloroacetaldehyde is further dehydrogenated to form chloroacetic acid. The latter compound is presumably dehalogenated by chloroacetate dehalogenase to glycolic acid, which can enter the central metabolic pathways (12).
Poly(ethylene vanillate) (PEV) can be prepared from vanillic acid and 2-chloroethanol. As 2-chloroethanol can be produced from ethylene glycol, which can originate from biomass, PEV is considered a bio-based polymer. Due to its analogous aliphatic/aromatic structure, and also similar mechanical and thermal properties, PEV is considered a potential alternative to PET. However, despite its great potential, it has not yet been widely investigated. Mialon et al. investigated a series of polyesters derived from 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid and syringic acid (4-hydroxy-3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid) [23] . The aromatic acids were modified with ω-chloro-alcohols on the aromatic hydroxyl group to afford hydroxy-carboxylic acids, which were further polymerized in the presence of Sb 2 O 3 as a catalyst. Poly(alkylene vanillate)s exhibited higher melting temperatures (T m ) than the corresponding poly(alkylene 4-hydroxybenzoate)s and poly(alkylene syringate)s and a decrease in the glass transition temperature (T g ) was observed with the increasing length of alkylene chain. The polymerization of vanillic acid was unsuccessful, yielding a low-molecular weight, insoluble material. More recently, Gioia et al. reported a one-pot synthesis of PEV from vanillic acid in the presence of ethylene carbonate, catalyzed by dibutyltin oxide [24] . The average molecular weight of the polymers obtained in the Polymers 2019, 11, 1672 3 of 27 latter work was slightly lower than in the work of Mialon et al. (4700 vs 5390 g mol −1 ), but the melting temperature rather higher (264 • C vs 239 • C). Gioia et al. copolymerized vanillic acid with ε-caprolactone [24] and ricinoleic acid [25], while Nguyen et al. have reported the copolymerization of 4-hydroxyethylvanillic acid with ε-caprolactone and l-lactide [26]
Vanillic acid (VA, purum 97%), 2-chloroethanol (>99%), titanium butoxide (Ti(OBu) 4 ) antimony trioxide (Sb 2 O 3 99.99%) catalyst were purchased from Aldrich Co. (Chemie GmbH, Steinheim, Germany). The purchased monomers have a petrochemical origin.
A strain of Pseudomonas putida was isolated that was able to degrade 2-chloroethanol. The degradation proceeded via 2-chloroacetaldehyde and chloroacetate to glycolate. In crude extracts the enzymes for this degradation pathway could be detected. All enzymes proved to be inducible. The dehalogenase that catalyzed the dehalogenation of chloroacetate to glycolate was further characterized. It consisted of a single polypeptide chain with a molecular mass of 28 kDa. After induction the dehalogenase was expressed at a high level. In a mutant resistant to high concentrations of 2-chloroethanol the dehalogenase was no longer expressed. The mechanism of resistance seemed to be due to the inability to convert chloroacetate and export of this compound out of the cell.
The SCFA were measured after derivatisation (esterification) with a modified Kristensen technique (16) , followed by GC. This method is based on SCFA esterification by 2-chloroethylchloroformate in aqueous and acid media, using isocaproic acid as the internal standard. More precisely, 350 ml samples (315 ml sample þ 35 ml 5 % H 3 PO 4 ), prepared as mentioned earlier, were mixed with 20 ml of 37 % HCl and 100 ml of 1 % isocaproate solution (w/v). Then, 750 ml of acetonitrile, 750 ml of 2-chloroethanol and 100 ml of pyridine were added. After careful homogenisation, the mixtures were centrifuged for 10 min at 3000 rpm and 48C. The reaction was initiated by adding 50 ml of 2-chloroethyl chloroformate to 1·5 ml of the supernatant. Subsequently, 4 ml of distilled water were added and the esters were extracted with 500 ml of cyclohexane. They were then analysed with a GC (Varian CP3800; Varian Medical Systems) equipped with a capillary column (30 m, 0·32 mm inner diameter, Restek Rtx 502.2; Restek) and fitted with a flame ionisation detector and a split/splitless injector. Helium was used as the carrier gas (1 ml/min) and 6 ml of each sample were injected. The column was maintained at 758C for 6 s, then the temperature was increased to 1708C at a rate of 78C/min. This temperature was maintained for 10 min, before being increased to 2208C (508C/min) and maintained for 3 min. The injector and the detector were utilised at 200 and 3008C, respectively. The amount of SCFA was determined with reference to an internal standard (isocaproate) and external standards (200 mMacetate, 80 mM-propionate, 80 mM-butyrate, 10 mM-isobutyrate, 10 mM-isovalerate, 8 mM-valerate and 8 mM-caproate).
In recent years, researchers have proposed the combination of imaging tests with metabolomics in order to improve the specificity of the actual procedure [27] . Therefore, biological fluids have been investigated with the aim of identifying metabolites capable of providing information related to lung cancer presence and tumor development. Table 1 summarizes literary papers investigating urinary biomarkers specific for lung cancer, focusing on the main aspects of the studies presented (i.e., population involved, experimental methods, and results). Table 1 . Literary studies investigating urinary biomarkers for lung cancer. GC-MS: gas chromatography linked to mass spectrometry; SPME: solid-phase microextraction fiber; LC: lung cancer. Hexanal concentration is higher in LC patients than in controls, while heptanal concentration is not so different between LC patients and controls Hanai et al. (2012) [35] 20 LC patients (59-77 years) at different stages 20 controls: (38-62 years) Sample preparation: thawing, centrifugation, filtration and extraction by SPME Analytical technique: GC-TOF MS Tetrahydrofuran 2-chloroethanol 2-pentanone 2-methylpyrazine Cyclohexanone 2-ethyl-1-hexanol 2-phenyl-2-propanol Isophorone
Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of 2-chloroethanol (99% pure), an industrial chemical and an intermediate in the synthesis of ethylene oxide, were conducted by dermal application of 2-chloroethanol dissolved in 70% ethanol:30% water (v/v) solutions to groups of 50 F344/N rats of each sex at doses of 0, 50, or 100 mg/kg for 103 weeks or to groups of 50 Swiss CD-1 mice of each sex at doses of 0, 7.5, or 15 mg per animal for 104 weeks (0, 253, or 630 mg/kg at week 1; 0, 180, 411 mg/kg at week 100). The control groups received skin applications of the vehicle; the mouse studies also included untreated control groups of 50 male and 50 females. 2-Chloroethanol solutions were applied to the clipped interscapular area of the animals once daily, 5 days per week for the test period. Rats received a volume of 0.18-0.22 ml of solution; mice received 0.10 ml of solution. In the 13-week studies, mortality was observed in male and female rats receiving 20 mg per day and higher. In the 104-week studies, the survival of high dose male mice was lower (P<0.05) than that of the vehicle controls (vehicle control, 26/50; 7.5 mg, 16/50; 15 mg, 12/50). Body weights of dosed mice were unaffected by 2-chloroethanol. The survival and body weight gain data suggest that the male and female rats and female mice could have tolerated a higher dose of 2-chloroethanol. Male mice probably could not have tolerated a higher dose than was applied to the skin. Seven high dose male mice died within 3 days of the start of dosing; all of these had inflammation at the site of dermal application. Five also had ulceration at the site of dermal application, and five had lung congestion, inflammation, or hemorrhage. Marginal increases were found in the incidence of lymphomas or leukemias (combined) as well as in the incidence of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas or carcinomas (combined) in low dose male mice. Since there was no dose-related trend for these tumor incidences and because the increases were observed in only one sex, the increases were not considered to be related to the dermal application of 2-chloroethanol. 2-Chloroethanol was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA100 and TA1535 (but not TA1537 or TA98) in either the presence or the absence of Aroclor 1254-induced male Sprague-Dawley rat or Syrian hamster liver S9. 2-Chloroethanol did not induce sex-linked recessive lethal mutations in Drosophila melanogaster. An audit of the experimental data was conducted for these 2-year studies. No data discrepancies were found that influenced the final interpretations. Under the conditions of these 2-year dermal studies, there was no evidence of carcinogenicity of 2-chloroethanol for male and female F344/N rats given 50 or 100 mg/kg per day or for male and female Swiss CD-1 mice given 7.5 or 15 mg per animal per day. Synonyms: ethylene chlorohydrin; chloroethanol; glycol chlorohydrin; b-chloroethanol
Prodn. of enantiomers of 1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol (I) comprises:(a) hydrolysing racemic ( plus or minus )- alpha -(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate (II) with a lipase prepn.;(b) sepg. the resulting S(+)-1-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-chloroethanol (Ia) from the unhydrolysed R(-)- alpha -(4-chlorophenyl)chloroethyl acetate (IIa), opt. after converting (Ia) to its succinate (Ib), and(c) hydrolysing (IIa) and opt. (Ib). The lipase prepn. is equine liver acetone extract powder, Pseudomonas fluorescens lipase PS, Pseudomonas lipase AK or Candida antarctica lipase. Also claimed are (Ia) and (IIa) prepd. as above.
Aziridine reacts spontaneously in THF at room temperature or below with the coordinated RNC ligand in some neutral and cationic isocyanide complexes of Pd(II) and Pt(II) to yield 5-membered cyclic diaminocarbene complexes, respectively. Reactions between thiirane and Pd(II) isocyanide complexes yield the corresponding cyclic amino-thiocarbene derivatives. In the presence of NaCl, oxirane is observed to react in 2-chloroethanol with some Pt(II) isocyanide complexes to form the corresponding 5-membered cyclic aminooxy carbene complexes. Also hydrido-alkyl-carbene derivatives were prepared by reaction of azetidine with some hydrido-alkyl-isocyanide compounds.These latter complexes react with triphenylphosphine eliminating H-Rx derived from Pt-Rx cleavage by NH.
Abstract As part of medicinal chemistry efforts we found it necessary to develop general syntheses of highly enantiomerically enriched 1-aryl-2-chloroethanols and 1-aryl-2-methylaminoethanols. A survey of literature methods suggested that a truly general approach had not yet been reported, encouraging us to undertake the development of such a methodology. This study describes the design, development, and reduction to practice of a general synthesis of chiral 1-aryl-2-chloroethanols and the transformation of these entities to highly enantiomerically enriched 1-aryl-2-methylaminoethanols. Of particular importance were observations of the impact of solvent and the method of catalyst preparation on the yield and enantiomerical excess of chlorohydrins prepared via Noyori transfer hydrogenations of aryl-chloromethyl ketones.
A histochemical analysis involving tinctorial and solubility tests was pursued in conjunction with electron microscopy for the purpose of identifying the dark brown epidermal pigment of a barnacle (Balanus eburneus) as melanin and/or ommochrome. Histochemically, comparisons were made with other brown pigments located in the subcarapal epidermis of another crustacean, the fiddler crab (Uca pugilator), the dorsal skin of the red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus), the liver and testis of a slider turtle (Chrysemys sp.) and the substantia nigra of human brain. The solubility properties of the pigment of the two crustacean invertebrates were in general similar to one another and markedly different from the pigment of the three vertebrates. Insolubility in appropriate solvents classified the vertebrate pigment as melanin. The invertebrate pigment, however, which was soluble in the ommochrome solvents, concentrated sulfuric and formic acids and 2-chloroethanol, remained insoluble in the ommochrome solvents, dilute aqueous and methanolic hydrochloric acid and dilute sulfuric acid. On the basis of these solubilities, an unequivocal classification of the invertebrate pigment as either melanin or ommochrome did not appear possible. The tinctorial and electron microscopic properties of the barnacle pigment were also equally ambiguous in regard to its specific classification.
The ozone-initiated oxidation of 2-chloroethanol was followed by monitoring the consumption of the halogenated organic substrate. Gas chromatographic analysis of the ozonated products showed an increase in conversion from about 1 % after 3 h of ozone treatment to about 22 % after 12 h. The yields of major ozonated products identified and quantified namely acetaldehyde, acetic acid, and chloride ion increased proportionately as a function of ozone treatment time. The percent conversion of 2-chloroethanol in the presence of acetic acid or ethyl acetate were found to be higher than those under solvent-free conditions with similar products obtained. The use of activated charcoal during the ozonolyis of 2-chloroethanol showed a significant increase in the percent conversion of the substrate compared to solvent free ozonation. Based on the experimental findings, the overall mechanism for the reaction between 2-chloroethanol and ozone is described.
Ninety-six-hour acute and 28-day larval survival and growth tests were conducted with nine organic chemicals, using the Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes) as the test organism. The nine tested chemicals were allyl isothiocyanate, aniline, benzyl acetate, 4-chloroaniline, 2-chloroethanol, 2,4-diaminotoluene, 1,2-dibromoethane, 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), and phenol. The derived 96-h LC50 values for medaka for all chemicals ranged from 0.077 mg/L for allyl isothiocyanate to 2,780 mg/L for 2,4-D. The chronic values for six of the nine chemicals tested ranged from 0.013 mg/L for allyl isothiocyanate to 42.5 mg/L for 2,4-D. Acute-to-chronic ratios for these six chemicals ranged from 1.4 for 2-chloroethanol to 70.9 for 2,4-D. Growth of medaka was significantly reduced in the lowest exposure concentration during 28-day larval tests with aniline, 4-chloroaniline, and 2,4-diaminotoluene. The estimated maximum acceptable toxicant concentration was reported as less than the lowest exposure concentration of 4.6, 2.2 and 40.3 mg/L for tests with aniline, 4-chloroaniline and 2,4-diaminotoluene, respectively. Chronic values for 2-chloroethanol and medaka were 12.6 mg/L during an embryo-larval test and 22.1 mg/L during the 28-day larval test.
PURPOSE: To obtain a hydroxyethyl starch for a plasma extender and the like which is physiologically degradable by pretreating starch rich in amylopectin by acid hydrolysis, hydroxyethylating the hydrolyzate under alkaline conditions, conducting acid hydrolysis to regulate the mol.wt., and purifying and drying the hydrolyzate. CONSTITUTION: Starch having an amylopectin content exceeding 95% is extracted by pretreatment with methanol or the like and then subjected to acid hydrolysis to bring the average mol.wt. of the starch to a suitable value. The hydrolyzate is then washed with an alkali and hydroxyethylated with 2-chloroethanol as a hydroxyethylating agent under alkaline conditions, followed by additional acid hydrolysis to accurately regulate the mol.wt. The hydrolyzate is then purified and spray-dried to obtain the hydroxyethyl starch having an average mol.wt. of 60,000 to 600,000 and a degree of substitution MS of 0.15 to 0.5, wherein the proportion of the substitution at the C2 position to the substitution at the C6 position in anhydrous glucose unit is (8:1) to (20:1) and the degree of substitution DS is 0.15 to 0.5. COPYRIGHT: (C)1991,JPO
Abstract A specific method for the determination of NTA in sewage is reported. The NTA is first absorbed on a anion exchange resin and is then eluted with hydrochloric acid. The hydrochloric acid solution is evaporated and the NTA is esterified using a solution of boron trifluoride in 2-chloroethanol. The resulting NTA tri-(2 chloroethylester) is determined by means of gas chromatography. The identity of the compound analysed as NTA was proven by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Objective: To synthesis acyclonucleoside phosphonates(8a-d) that has stronger anti-HBV activity and improved oral absorption properties.Methods: 2-chloroethanol was used as starting material,which reacted with paraformaldehyde/ hydrogen chloride to form 2-chloroethyl chloromethyl ether,which then was coupled with triethyl phosphite to form bis ethyl-(2-chloroethoxy)-methylphosphonate.The produced compound was then coupled with 2-amino-6-chloropurine and followed by condensation with substituted arylthiol or cyclopropylamine to afford 2-Amino-6-(arylthiol or cyclopropylamine)-9-[2-(phosphonomethoxy) ethyl] purine bis ethyl ester.The phosphonic acid ethyl ester of the obtained compounds was hydrolyzed in the presence of HCl/MeOH.The hydrolyzed compounds were then coupled with 3-bromo-1-propyl ester of N-Boc-L-amino acids and followed by removal of the N-protecting group in CH3COCl/MeOH ethyl acetate solution to give target compounds 8a-d.Results: The structure of target compounds 8a-d and its intermediates were confirmed by the methods of 1H NMR,ESI-MS.Conclusion: The synthetic method used in this study has preferable practicality and can be used in synthesizing 6-substituted purine acyclonucleoside phosphonates bis L-amino acid esters.
Double-stranded (ds) calf thymus DNA (0.4 mM), excited by 20 ns laser pulses at 248 nm, was studied in deoxygenated aqueous solution at room temperature and pH 6.7 in the presence of a sodium salt (10 mM). The quantum yields for the formation of hydrated electrons (phi c-), single-strand breaks (phi ssb) and double-strand breaks (phi dsb) were determined for various laser pulse intensities (IL). phi c- and phi ssb increase linearly with increasing IL; however, phi ssb has a tendency to reach saturation at high IL (greater than 5 X 10(6) Wcm-2). The ratio phi ssb/phi c-, representing the number of ssb per radical cation, is about 0.08 at IL less than or equal to 5 X 10(6) Wcm-2. For comparison, the number of ssb per OH radical reacting with dsDNA is 0.22. On going from argon to N2O saturation, phi ssb and phi dsb become larger by factors of approximately 5 and 10-15, respectively. This enhancement is produced by attack on DNA bases by OH radicals generated by N2O-scavenging of the photoelectrons. While phi ssb is essentially independent of the dose (Etot), phi dsb depends linearly on Etot in both argon- and N2O-saturated solutions. The linear dependence of phi dsb implies a square dependence of the number of dsb on Etot. This portion of dsb formation is explained by the occurrence of two random ssb, generated within a critical distance (h) in opposite strands. For both argon- and N2O-saturated solutions h was found to be of the order of 40-70 phosphoric acid diester bonds. On addition of electron scavengers such as 2-chloroethanol (or N2O plus t-butanol), phi dsb is similar to that in neat, argon-saturated solutions. Thus, hydrated electrons are not involved in the chemical pathway leading to laser-pulse-induced dsb of DNA.
ABSTRACTThe interactions of 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) and 2-phenylethanol (2-PE) in N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) as a function of temperature have been investigated. The density (ρ), and ultrasonic velocity (u), of 2-CE and 2-PE in NMP have been measured in the temperature interval T = (303.15, 308.15, 313.15 and 318.15) K and atmospheric pressure. The excess molar volume, excess partial molar volume, excess partial molar volume at infinite dilution and excess isentropic compressibility of 2-CE and 2-PE in NMP binary liquid solutions were determined at measured temperatures. The calculated excess functions , and were fitted to Redlich–Kister equation to estimate binary interaction parameters. The excess functions have been discussed in terms of molecular interactions between component molecules of the binary mixtures and their interacting abilities were compared. Infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) measurements have also been done to explain the molecular interaction in the binary liquid mixtures.
Chemokines, a large family of signaling proteins, mediate diverse biological functions, including inflammation, development and tissue repair [1] [2] [3] . Chemokines mediate their function by activating seven transmembrane G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and binding sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) that regulate receptor function [4] [5] [6] . Another key feature of chemokines is their ability to reversibly exist as monomers and dimers and sometimes as higher order oligomers. Humans express 50 different chemokines, which are classified on the basis of conserved cysteines near the N-terminus as CXC, CC, CX 3 C and XC. Chemokine CXCL7 (also known as NAP-2), released by activated platelets, plays a prominent role in recruiting neutrophils to the injury site during thrombosis [7] [8] [9] . CXCL7 belongs to a subset of CXC neutrophil-activating chemokines (NACs) that are characterized by an N-terminal "ELR" motif and function as potent agonists for the CXCR2 receptor [10] . Other members of ELR-chemokines include CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXCL5, CXCL6 and CXCL8 ( Figure 1 ). ~1 to 10 μM. We observed that the dimer levels increase with increasing concentration up to a point after which tetramer levels populate, and dimer levels do not go beyond ~50% at any given condition (Table S1 ). The structure of CXCL7 determined by crystallography corresponded to the tetrameric state [15] , which is not surprising, as crystallography by its very nature results in the higher oligomeric state. The solution structure of a CXCL7 monomer determined in the presence of 2-chloroethanol that is known to disrupt intermolecular dimer and tetramer interactions has been reported, but its coordinates are not available in the public domain [16] . Sequence alignment of neutrophil-activating chemokines. The conserved "ELR" motif is shown in green. Basic residues that mediate GAG and receptor interactions and hydrophobic residues that mediate receptor interactions for CXCL7 identified in this study are shown in blue and red, respectively. The corresponding residues in other chemokines are likewise highlighted. Residues K9 and R54 shown to be involved in binding only in CXCL7 are italicized and underlined.
Previous studies indicate that tris(2-chloroethyl)phosphate (TCP) preferentially produces hippocampal brain lesions in female versus male rats, and the expression of these lesions is inversely related to the in vivo rate of TCP metabolism. In the present studies, TCP (0.17 mm in all incubations) was metabolized in vitro by liver slices and microsomes from human and Fischer 344N rat liver to bis(2-chloroethyl) hydrogen phosphate (BCP), 2-chloroethanol (CE), and three unidentified metabolites. The rate of TCP metabolism by male rat liver microsomes and liver slices was 0.049 nmol/min/mg protein and 2.53 nmol/min/g liver, respectively. TCP metabolism by male rat liver microsomes was inhibited by 10 μm diisopropyl fluorophosphate, 10 μm paraoxon and carbon monoxide. TCP did not appear to be metabolized by female rat liver microsomes, but female rat liver slices metabolized TCP at a rate of 1.51 nmol/min/g liver. TCP was metabolized by male and female rat plasma at a rate of 0.156 and 0.169 nmol/ml plasma, respectively. TCP was metabolized by male and female human liver microsomes at a rate of 0.027 and 0.031 nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. TCP was metabolized by male and female human liver slices at a rate of 1.37 and 1.82 nmol/min/g liver, respectively. BCP and CE were the major metabolites formed in all studies, except for liver slices and microsomes from two human male subjects in which an unidentified metabolite constituted 29 to 38% of the total TCP metabolism. TCP was not metabolized by plasma or whole blood from male or female human subjects. These results support the previously reported sex-specific difference in TCP metabolism by male and female Fischer 344N rats. However, no sex-specific difference in rates of TCP metabolism by male and female human liver microsomes or slices was observed.
This report is part of a study on skin pathology, blood levels and percutaneous toxicity after the epicutaneous administration of solvents. The method used for the study of percutaneous toxicity differentiated between different types of solvents, and between different applied volumes of the same solvent. Five solvents caused some mortalities (in declining order: 2-chloroethanol, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, ethyleneglycolmonobutylether, carbontetrachloride, and dimethylformamide). Four solvents--benzene, toluene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, and trichloroethylene--did not cause mortality, but a statisically significant effect on weight gain was observed. For n-hexane the weight gain did not differ (P greater than 0.2) from that of the control animals exposed to distilled water. For comparison, the same amounts of the solvents were injected intraperitoneally. There was a fairly good agreement between intraperitoneal and percutaneous toxicity, but slight deviations were observed for carbontetrachloride and dimethylformamide.
Abstract The ultrasonic velocity ( u ) and density ( ρ ) of binary mixtures of 2-Chloroethanol (2-CletOH) with 2-Dimethylaminoethanol (DMAE) and 2-Diethylaminoethanol (DEAE) have been measured over the entire concentration range at temperatures 293.15, 303.15 and 313.15 K. The ultrasonic velocity and density data are used to estimate adiabatic compressibility ( β S ), intermolecular free length ( L f ), molar sound velocity ( R ), molar compressibility ( B ) and specific acoustic impedance ( Z ) along with excess values of ultrasonic velocity ( u E ), adiabatic compressibility ( β S E ), intermolecular free length ( L f E ), acoustic impedance ( Z E ) and molar volume ( V m E ). The infrared spectra of both of the systems, 2-CletOH + DMAE and 2-CletOH + DEAE, have also been recorded at room temperature (298.15 K). The observed variations of these parameters, with concentration and temperature, are discussed in terms of the intermolecular interactions between the unlike molecules of the binary mixtures.
Abstract In a one-pot reaction, the three titled manganese chloride complexes were prepared by refluxing Mn2(CO)10 with (PP) in 2-chloroethanol for two hours. The new compounds were characterized by IR, 1H NMR, mass spectra and microanalyses. The X-ray crystal structure of fac-Mn(CO)3(depe)Cl is also reported.
Stereospecific formation of threo-1,2-dideuterio-2-chloroethanol [threo-(3)] in the Wacker reaction of trans-1,2-dideuterioethene (2) indicates that the hydroxy-palladation step is a trans-process.
The proteins from wheat seeds were extracted and separated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) at pH 3.2 according to the method of Cooper (1987) . The extraction medium consisted of pyronine G (0.05%) in 2-chloroethanol (20%) (w/v) containing urea (18%) and 2-mercaptoethanol (1%). The reduced by the 2-mercaptoethanol proteins were fractionated in 10% PAGE, using the discontinuous system of Laemmli (1970). Gels were stained with 0.03% (w/v) Coomassie Brilliant Blue R 250 in a methanol and acetic acid mixture (5 : 1) (v/v).
To study the formation of fatty acid conjugates of 2-chloroethanol (2-CE) and 2-bromoethanol (2-BE), rats were administered (by gavage) 50 mg/kg of 2-CE and 2-BE in mineral oil and sacrificed on fifth day of the treatment. Hepatic microsomal lipids were extracted, and the fatty acid esters were separated by preparative thin-layer chromotography. The ester fraction was further purified by reverse-phase, high-performance liquid chromatography and analyzed by ammonia chemical ionization mass spectrometry. Pseudomolecular ions (M + NH4+, base peak) at m/z 336/338, 362/364, and 364/366 in a ratio of 3:1 and 380/382 and 408/410 in a ratio of 1:1 confirmed the in vivo formation of 2-chloroethyl palmitate, 2-chloroethyl oleate, 2-chloroethyl stearate, 2-bromoethyl palmitate, and 2-bromoethyl stearate, respectively. These results demonstrate the formation of fatty acid conjugates of 2-CE and 2-BE in vivo. These fatty acid conjugates may be retained in the body for a longer time and cause toxic manifestations.
Abstract The infrared spectrum of 2-chloroethanol in a low-temperature Ar matrix shows marked intensity changes in the OH and CCl stretching reg
The facile route of preparing S-2-(-aminoalkylamino) ethyl dihydrogen phosphorothioates, potential chemical radioprotectants, have been studied. Intermediate 3-(2-phthalimidoethyl)-2-oxazolidinone was prepared by a reaction of potassium phthalimide and 3-(2-bromoethyl)-2-oxazolidinone, which was obtained through the alkaline ring closure of a mixture of carbonate and 2,2'-dibromo diethylamine prepared from diethanolamine. This was converted to N-[2-(2-bromoethylamino)ethyl] phthalimide hydrobromide by 30% HBr(gas) in acetic acid and N-(2-bromoethyl)-1,2-ethanediamine dihydrobromide was obtained by reacting the hydrobromide with a solution of HBr-HOAc. N-(2-bromoethyl)-1,3-propanediamine dihydrobromide could be prepared through the Cortese treatment of 2-(3-aminopropylamino) ethanol, which was prepared by a reaction of 1,3-diaminopropane and 2-chloroethanol. These dihydrobromides were treated by sodium thiophosphate in DMF to result S-2-(-aminoalkylamino) ethyl dihydrogen phosphorothioates. The characteristics of each reaction path were discussed in regards to reaction conditions and overall yields and a facile route of preparing each derivative was proposed.
Haloalkane dehalogenase from Xanthobacter autotrophicus GJ 10 catalyzes the conversion of 1,Zdichloroethane to 2-chloroethanol and chloride without use of oxygen or cofactors. The active site is situated in an internal cavity, which is accesible from the solvent, even in the crystal. Crystal structures of the dehalogenase enzyme complexed with iodoacetamide, chloroacetamide, iodide, and chloride at p H 6.2 and 8.2 revealed a halide binding site between the ring NH's of two tryptophan residues, Trp-125 and Trp-175, located in the active site. The halide ion lies on the intersection of the planes of the rings of the tryptophans. The binding of iodide and chloride to haloalkane dehalogenase caused a strong decrease in protein fluorescence. The decrease could be fitted to a modified form of the Stern-Volmer equation, indicating the presence of fluorophors of different accessibilities. Halide binding was much stronger at pH 6.0 than at p H 8.2. Assuming ligand binding to Trp-125 and Trp-175 as the sole cause of fluorescence quenching, dissociation constants at pH 6.0 with chloride and iodide were calculated to be 0.49 f 0.04 and 0.074 f 0.007 mM, respectively. Detailed structural investigation showed that the halide binding site probably stabilizes the halide product as well as the negatively charged transition state occurring during the formation of the covalent intermediate.
The phthalazine (1) was allowed to react with 2-aminoethanol, allyl bromide, benzoyl chloride, 2-chloroethanol, phosphorous pentasulfide, ethyl cyanoacetate, phenyl isothiocyanate, piperazine and ethyl piperazine-1-carboxylate to give (2), (18), (17), (12), (9), (15), (19), (7) and (8). The compound (2) was allowed to react with phenyl isothiocyanate, acetic anhydride and piperonaldehyde giving (3), (5) and (6). (3) reacted with diethyl malonate to give the pyrimidine derivative (4). The thione (9) reacted with hydrazine hydrate followed by anisaldehyde to give (10) and (11). The phthalazinone derivative (12) reacted with phenol and catechol to give (13a,b). Acetylation of (13b) gave the diacetyl derivative (14). Finally (15) reacted with phenyl hydrazine gave the propenoic acid phenylhydrazide (16). The new compounds were synthesized with the objective of studying their antifungal and antimicrobial activity. Some of them gave positive results. The newly synthesized compounds were characterized on the basis of their spectral ( 1 H-NMR, Mass spectrum, IR and Elementary analysis).
A simple, convenient synthetic procedure for [14C]acrylonitrile is described. Na14CN is used as the radioactive starting material. Small (milligram) amounts are converted to 3-[14C]Hydroxypropionitrile by a substitution reaction with 2-chloroethanol. 3-[14C]Hydroxypropionitrile is then tosylated, and the specific activity of this intermediate product is easily determined using its uv extinction coefficient and scintillation counting. [14C]Acrylonitrile is obtained rapidly on distillation by heating the tosylate in the presence of a high boiling tertiary amine base catalyst. The tosylate intermediate can be stored, in contrast to radioactive acrylonitrile, which is unstable. The reaction of acrylonitrile with lysine, hydroxylysine, and histidine residues in human Achilles tendon collagen, as well as chromatographic separation and identification of the carboxyethyl derivatives of these amino acids, is also described.
The process for continuous production of 2-chloroethanol by reactive distillation was studied using experiment.In the process,the catalyst was hexanedioic acid with gas chromatography measured the product purity.It has been found that the obtained optimum process parameters were oil bathing temperature ranged from 115 to 120 ℃,reflux ratio 0.5,the amount of catalysts 5%(mole ratio)feeding ratio of m(ethylene glycol):m(hydrochloric acid):m(water)=2.3:3.8:1.Under the conditions,the purity of 2-chloroethanol reached 42%.
Yeast pro-proteinase C was transformed to active form by brief exposure to a lower concentration of protein denaturants: urea, guanidine hydrochloride, acid and various solvents including dimethylformamide, 2-chloroethanol, dioxane, formamide, ethanol and n-propanol. Dioxane 30_??_35% or 4M urea were most effective in obtaining high activity. In respect to catalytic properties, the reagent-activated enzymes were identical with proteinase C which was obtained from yeast autolysate. The characteristic participation of cysteine and serine residues in the catalytic process was also suggested in the aforementioned enzymes. The proenzyme was composed of two subunit proteins. However their dissociation was not involved in the denaturant-activation process, as determined from the sedimentation and gel-filtration analyses. Changes in the reactivity of an unessential cysteine residue of the proenzyme, however, suggested that the structural alteration would be accompanied in the process. From these results, it was concluded that the denaturants rearrange the quartenary structure of the proenzyme and lead to demasking of the active site.
Abstract Various uncomplexed and complexed Cu(I) salts, Li2CuCl4, Li2CuCl3, Ph2CuLi and PhCu, have been tested as catalysts in the coupling reactions of phenyllithium with 2-chloroethanol, ethyl bromide, 2-chloroethyl tosylate and ethyl tosylate. CuBr.Me2S,-CuCN, CuI.PBu3-n and Cul have been found to be the most effective and selective catalysts in diethyl ether, respectively, for these couplings. The catalytic activity in Cu(I) catalyzed coupling reactions of phenyllithium depends on the reaction conditions, on the nucleofugal group, and on the 2-heteroatom functionality of the substrate.
N'-(2-Chloroethyl)-N-[2-(methylsulphinyl) ethyl] and N'-(2-chloroethyl)-N-[2-(methylsulphonyl) ethyl]-N and N'-nitrosoureas (CMSOEN1, CMSO2EN1, CMSOEN2 and CMSO2EN2) are new nitrosoureas derived from cysteamine. Two of them (CMSOEN2 and CMSO2EN2) have shown excellent efficacy against several murine tumours. The inactive agents (CMSOEN1 and CMSO2EN1) display low alkylating activity but high carbamoylating activity. In contrast, the active agents (CMSOEN2 and CMSO2EN2) are strong alkylating agents but relatively weak carbamoylators. The disposition of CMSOEN2 and CMSO2EN2 was studied in rat, using two differently labelled species of each compound, administered i.v. (60 mumol/kg). Plasma disappearance, tissue distribution (with the exception of the brain) and elimination of radioactivity are similar for the two compounds similarly labelled. In contrast, these parameters are strongly influenced by the label position used. Plasma disappearance of unchanged CMSOEN2 and CMSO2EN2 follows a first-order kinetic process with the same half-life for both compounds (30-31 min). More unchanged CMSO2EN2 is found in brain compared to its congener (55 nmol/g and 37 nmol/g respectively at five minutes). This is most likely the consequence of the higher lipophilic character of the former compound. The breakdown product 2-chloroethanol was identified in plasma.
The conformations of poly-Nω,ω′-dicarbobenzyloxy-L-arginine, poly-Nω-carbobenzyloxy-L-arginine, and poly-L-arginine hydrobromide were studied by means of their infrared spectra (IR), X-ray photographs, optical rotatory dispersions (ORD), and circular dichroisms (CD). The presence of the α-helical conformation in poly-Nω,ω′-dicarbobenzyloxy-L-arginine and poly-Nω-carbobenzyloxy-L-arginine was confirmed by X-ray photographs and by their IR spectra. The ORD and the CD curves of these polymers were found to be characteristic of the α-helical conformation. It was also found that these polypeptides have a random coil conformation in trifluoroacetic acid. In the (2-chloroethanol : trifluoroacetic acid) solvent system, the typical helix-coil transition of poly-Nω-carbobenzyloxy-L-arginine was observed at 20–30% trifluoroacetic acid. The ORD and the CD curves of poly-L-arginine showed that the polymer took a random coil structure in the pH range from 2.7 to 11.0. However, when the pH is increased from 11.0 to 11.5...
A gas-liquid chromatographic method with an electron-capture detector was applied for 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) determination in the serum and brain tissue of rats acutely intoxicated with the dimethylamine salt of 2,4-D. After extraction with ethyl ether, 2,4-D derivatization was performed using 2-chloroethanol and BCI3. The average recovery values found for serum and brain tissue were 98.5 +/- 4.8 and 93.3 +/- 7.5, respectively. The sensitivity limit of the method was 250 ng/mL for serum and 300 ng/g for brain tissue. The toxic effects of 2,4-D in rats were observed within one-half hour after its oral administration. Results suggest that the toxic mechanism of 2,4-D is related to an action on the central nervous system.
Abstract Long chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase (acid:CoA ligase (AMP-forming), EC 6.2.1.3) from rat liver microsomes was shown to dissociate completely into one polypeptide chain in 75% 2-chloroethanol in water. The presence of one amino and one carboxy terminal was established. The molecular weight of the subunit as deduced from sedimentation equilibrium as well as quantitative carboxy terminal analysis agrees with the value of 28 000 ± 1000 as reported previously (Bar-Tana, J. and Rose, G. (1973) Biochem. J. 131, 443–449). Hence, the catalytic unit of 168 000 daltons appears to be composed of identical subunits.
Incubation of five different β-chloroethers with slurries prepared from brackish water sediment or activated sludge revealed that bis(2-chloroethyl)ether and 2-chloroethylvinylether (2-CVE) were biodegradable under aerobic conditions. After enrichment, two different cultures of Ancylobacter aquaticus that are capable of growth on 2-CVE were isolated. Both cultures were also able to grow on 1,2-dichloroethane. The cells contained a haloalkane dehalogenase that dehalogenated 2-CVE, 2-chloroethylmethylether, 2-bromoethylethylether, and epichlorohydrin. Experiments with cell extracts indicated that an alcohol dehydrogenase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase were also involved in the degradation of 2-CVE. This suggests that 2-CVE is metabolized via 2-hydroxyethylvinylether and vinyloxyacetaldehyde to vinyloxyacetic acid. Enzymatic ether cleavage was not detected. 2-CVE was also degraded by chemical ether cleavage, leading to the formation of 2-chloroethanol and acetaldehyde, both of which supported growth. We propose that A. aquaticus strains may be important for the detoxification and degradation of halogenated aliphatic compounds in the environment.
A further sample of the intact lipid was reacted with 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (Wheeldon & Collins, 1957) and the DNP-lipid was hydrolysed with 6 N-HCl for 4 hr at 1 0 5 ' . The hydrolysate was extracted with ether (6 x I ml.) and the aqueous layer was dried in vacua over P,O, and KOH. The residue was dissolved in n-butanol+ethyl acetate (I + I, by vol.) and examined by thin-layer chromatography on silica gel G using the solvent systems n-propanol+ aq. ammonia sp.gr. 0.88 (7 + 3 by vol. ; Brenner, Niedenvieser & Pataki, 1961), the upper phase of n-butanol + acetic acid +water (4 + I + 5, by vol.) and 2-chloroethanol+ toluene + pyridine + 20 % (w/v) aq. ammonia (I o + 7 + 3 + 2, by vol. ; Pataki, I 967).
Source of material 3-aminomethylbenzylamine (136 mg, 1 mmol) and 2-chloroethanol (161 mg, 2 mmol) in toluene (20 ml) were refluxed for 10 h, and the white shiny crystals were collected by filtration. Large rod-like colorless crystals were obtained after the above product was recrystallized from acetone (yield 87 %). Elemental analysis: found -C, 66.93 %; H, 5.68 %; N, 12.66 %; calc. for C 12 H 12 N 2 O 2 -C, 66.65 %; H, 5.59 %; N, 12.95 %.
Incubation of five different 1-chloroethers with slurries prepared from brackish water sediment or activated sludge revealed that bis(2-chloroethyl)ether and 2-chloroethylvinylether (2-CVE) were biodegradable under aerobic conditions. After enrichment, two different cultures of Ancylobacter aquaticus that are capable of growth on 2-CVE were isolated. Both cultures were also able to grow on 1,2-dichloroethane. The cells contained a haloalkane dehalogenase that dehalogenated 2-CVE, 2-chloroethylmethylether, 2-bromoethylethylether, and epichlorohydrin. Experiments with cell extracts indicated that an alcohol dehydrogenase and an aldehyde dehydrogenase were also involved in the degradation of 2-CVE. This suggests that 2-CVE is metabolized via 2-hydroxyethylvinylether and vinyloxyacetaldehyde to vinyloxyacetic acid. Enzymatic ether cleavage was not detected. 2-CVE was also degraded by chemical ether cleavage, leading to the formation of 2-chloroethanol and acetaldehyde, both of which supported growth. We propose that A. aualicus strains may be important for the detoxification and degradation of halogenated aliphatic compounds in the environment.
Viscosity and preferential solvation measurements were carried out on ionized maleic acidethyl, -butyl, and -hexyl vinyl ether alternating copolymers (i-MA/EVE, i-MA/BVE, and i-MA/HVE, respectively) in water-2-chloroethanol mixtures. i-MA/EVE and i-MA/BVE are completely coiled and their preferential and absolute solvation by water and 2-chloroethanol reflects their more or less hydrophilic or hydrophobic nature. For i-MA/HVE, the viscosimetric and preferential solvation measurements suggest that, in 2-chloroethanol rich mixtures, the polymer retains a hypercoiled conformation in which an important part of the hexyl side chains are screened form contact with both componenets of the solvent mixture.
