A comparative study on the anti-oxidation capacity of aqueous and ethanol extracts containing angelica and astragalus membranaceus of the Dangguibuxuetang decoction and the 2 componental single herbs was made.Hydroxyl free radical produced by the Fenton reaction was reacted with salicylic acid in an acetate buffer medium of pH 4.6,to form a reddish violet product,2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with its absorption maximum at 510 nm,where the absorbance was measured.When any of the anti-oxidative ingredient in the medicines was added to the above mentioned reaction system,decrease of absorbance of the color reaction was observed due to the elimination of ·OH group by the anti-oxidative ingredient.Based on these facts,the anti-oxidation capacity of the medicines was studied.As shown by the tested results,both the extracts of the compound haematic decoction and the single medicinal herbs showed good anti-oxidation capacity against the ·OH free radical,however,higher anti-oxidation capacity was obtained with the extracts(either aqueous or ethanol)of the decoction.But as comparing the anti-oxidation capacity between the aqueous extract and ethanol extract,better results were found with the former.
For its high reactivity and very short half-life, the hydroxyl radical (OH.) in vivo is very difficult to be detected. Usually, it is indirectly quantified by determining 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA), which are the reaction products of salicylic acid (SA) and OH .. Because 2,5-DHBA could be directly formed by the P 4 5 0 enzyme, only 2,3-DHBA is regarded as the real biomarker of OH. in biological studies. But the very low concentration of OH in human bodies makes its determination very difficult and complicated. In this paper, a simple online stacking capillary zone electrophoresis coupled with amperometric detection (CZE-AD) method was explored to improve the detection sensitivity of 2,3-DHBA to reach the requirements in biological analysis. A mixture solution of 12.5 mmol/L Na 2 B 4 O 7 -25mmol/L NaH 2 PO 4 (pH 7.9) was used as the running buffer and p-methyl benzoate was selected as a suitable stacker. The effects of the concentration, pH value, and injection time of p-methyl benzoate on stacking efficiency were carefully studied. Under the optimum stacking CZE-AD conditions, the detection sensitivity of 2,3-DHBA was improved about 20-fold and its detection limit reached the 10 - 9 mol/L level. The experimental results showed that this was a potential method to determine OH. in vivo.
Chlorocatechelin A (1) is a structurally unique microbial siderophore containing two units of 4-chloro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (CDB) and a characteristic acylguanidine structure. Purification from the microbe culture is not an easy task due to the lability of the acylguanidine and its chelating nature. Here we report the first convergent total synthesis and antimicrobial activity of chlorocatechelin A (1). The bis-acylated arginine was constructed using a Schotten–Baumann reaction whereas the CDB component was synthesized from o-vanillin (8). Condensation with an ornithine derivative synthesized from 1-benzyl d-glutamate was followed by deprotection in basic and neutral conditions to complete the total synthesis. We examined the antimicrobial activity of chlorocatechelin A (1) and found that this siderophore was active against desferrioxamine B (DFB)-sensitive microbes including the fish pathogen Pasteurella piscicida.
Catharanthus roseus cell cultures produce a high amount of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and salicylic acid (SA) with a concomitant induction of isochorismate synthase (ICS, EC 5.4.99.6) after addition of a fungus Pythium aphanidermatum. To investigate whether 2,3-DHBA might be formed through an intermediacy of SA, the cells were fed with this compound. A significant increase of glycosidically bound 2,3-DHBA was obtained, although no effect on ICS was observed in the cells treated with SA. On the contrary, the addition of SA in combination with fungal elicitor led to a lower level of the total 2,3-DHBA found in the cells and the medium, but no influence on the induction of ICS activity. These results suggest SA is unlikely a direct precursor of 2,3-DHBA. However, it might have a regulatory role in the 2,3-DHBA biosynthetic pathway.
The ATP-[ 32 P]pyrophosphate exchange assay was used to characterize the substrate specificities of both SidE adenylation domains. All reactions were run in triplicate and in a total volume of 100 l at 37°C using 100 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5); reaction mixtures included 5 mM MgCl 2 , 5 mM ATP, 100 nM purified truncated SidE A 1 T 1 or A 2 T 2 didomain proteins, 0.1 mM [ 32 P]pyrophosphate, and 1 mM fumarate or L-alanine (or other substrates). The reactions proceeded for 30 min as described previously (20) . The tested substrates included the 20 proteinogenic L-amino acids and L-ornithine, pyruvic acid, oxaloacetic acid, ␣-ketoglutaric acid, phenylpyruvic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid, indolyl-3-pyruvic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid, succinic acid, fumaric acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, benzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, salicylic acid, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Brucella abortus reportedly produces the monocatechol siderophore 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in response to iron limitation. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cloned DHBA biosynthesis locus from virulent B. abortus 2308 and genetic complementation of defined Escherichia coli mutants were used to identify the B. abortus genes (designated dhbC, -B, and -A) responsible for synthesis of this siderophore. Reverse transcriptase PCR analysis of total RNA with dhb-specific primers demonstrated that dhbC, -B, and -A are transcribed as components of an operon, together with dhbE, a functional homolog of the Escherichia coli entE gene. Homologs of the E. coli entD and Vibrio cholerae vibH genes were also detected in the flanking regions immediately adjacent to the B. abortus dhbCEBA operon, suggesting that B. abortus has the genetic capacity to produce a more complex 2,3-DHBA-based siderophore. Slot blot hybridization experiments and primer extension analysis showed that transcription of the B. abortus dhbCEBA operon originates from two iron-regulated promoters located upstream of dhbC. Consistent with their iron-dependent regulation, both of the dhbCEBA promoter sequences contain typical consensus Fur-binding motifs. Although previously published studies have shown that 2,3-DHBA production is not required for the establishment and maintenance of chronic spleen infection by B. abortus in mice, experimental infection of pregnant cattle with the B. abortus dhbC mutant BHB1 clearly showed that production of this siderophore is essential for wild-type virulence in the natural ruminant host.
A natural phenolic compound namely pyrocatechuic acid or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid has been known for its biological activity as antioxidant and antimicrobial agent. This compound shows a potential chelating ability to bind metal ions through its three oxygen donor atoms. This ability seems to be promising for metal intoxication by chelation. In this study, the chelating ability of PA towards metal ion was expressed as “equilibrium constant” which shown the stability of the chelate complex formed. The investigated metal ions are Cu2+, Zn2+, and Mn2+. Potentiometric method was used for the determination of the equilibrium constant. The potentiometric method was carried out in aqueous solution which mimic human body fluid, with ionic strength of 0.15 mol•dm-3 NaCl at temperature 37°C. The formation of chelate complex was confirmed by spectrophotometric measurements. The result showed that the two oxygen donor atoms from hydroxyl group of PA were found to bind the metal ion. The stability of the metal complexes were increased as the ionic radius of the metal ion is decreased, ::: where the complex that has highest stability is Cu2+ > Zn2+ > Mn2+. Additionally, the species distribution of the metal complexes in function of pH was presented graphically by using HySS2009.
Helium at an ambient pressure of 68 at m with 0.2 atm of O2 shortened by 1 to 1.5 h the lag phase for growth of Escherichia coli in minimal medium supplemented with 2 μliters of cell-free culture filtrate (CFF) per ml or with 1 μM 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine (DHBS), an iron chelator. The lag phase of cultures not exposed to helium could be shortened by use of supplements, but higher concentrations were required—10 to 30 μliters of CFF per ml or 10 to 50 μM DHBS. Strain AN 193 of E. coli, which requires the DHBS precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), grew well in media with 10 μM DHBA when exposed to helium at 68 atm, whereas 100 μM DHBA was required for growth in unexposed cultures. In the presence of 100 μM DHBA plus 1.0 μM ethylenediaminetetraactic acid, growth was inhibited at 1 and 68 atm. Growth was restored, however, by the addition of 0.1 μM FeSO4 at 68 atm and 1.0 μM FeSO4 at 1 atm, but lag times were invariably shorter in the pressurized cultures. Hydrostatic pressures of 68 atm did not reduce the lag phase in the presence of CFF, DHBS, or DHBA. Our results suggest that 68 atm of helium pressure, but not hydrostatic pressure, elicited a more rapid transport of iron into the cells.
Mutants of Pseudomonas testosteroni afford a site-specific aromatic hydroxylation of m-hydroxybenzoic acid giving 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
A specific enzymatic method to determine the amounts of itoic acid, a Bacillus subtilis siderophore, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) was devised. A sample was incubated first with hippurate hydrolase and then with 2,3-DHBA-3,4-dioxygenase. Itoic acid was estimated from the increase in A374. The incubation with the first enzyme was omitted for the determination of 2,3-DHBA.
Brucella abortus reportedly produces the monocatechol siderophore 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in response to iron limitation. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cloned DHBA biosynthesis locus from virulent B. abortus 2308 and genetic complementation of defined Escherichia coli mutants were used to identify the B. abortus genes (designated dhbC, -B, and -A) responsible for synthesis of this siderophore. Reverse transcriptase PCR analysis of total RNA with dhb-specific primers demonstrated that dhbC, -B, and -A are transcribed as components of an operon, together with dhbE, a functional homolog of the Escherichia coli entE gene. Homologs of the E. coli entD and Vibrio cholerae vibH genes were also detected in the flanking regions immediately adjacent to the B. abortus dhbCEBA operon, suggesting that B. abortus has the genetic capacity to produce a more complex 2,3-DHBA-based siderophore. Slot blot hybridization experiments and primer extension analysis showed that transcription of the B. abortus dhbCEBA operon originates from two iron-regulated promoters located upstream of dhbC. Consistent with their iron-dependent regulation, both of the dhbCEBA promoter sequences contain typical consensus Fur-binding motifs. Although previously published studies have shown that 2,3-DHBA production is not required for the establishment and maintenance of chronic spleen infection by B. abortus in mice, experimental infection of pregnant cattle with the B. abortus dhbC mutant BHB1 clearly showed that production of this siderophore is essential for wild-type virulence in the natural ruminant host.
The plant pathogen Dickeya chrysanthemi EC16 (formerly known as Petrobacterium chrysanthemi EC16 and Erwinia chrysanthemi EC16) was found to produce a new triscatecholamide siderophore, cyclic trichrysobactin, the related catecholamide compounds, linear trichrysobactin and dichrysobactin, and the previously reported monomeric siderophore unit, chrysobactin. Chrysobactin is comprised of l-serine, d-lysine, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Trichrysobactin is a cyclic trimer of chrysobactin joined by a triserine lactone backbone. The chirality of the ferric complex of cyclic trichrysobactin is found to be in the Λ configuration, similar to Fe(III)-bacillibactin, which contains a glycine spacer between the DHBA and l-threonine components and is opposite that of Fe(III)-enterobactin, which contains DHBA ligated directly to l-serine.
The aminoglycoside kanamycin is a commonly used antibiotic, but unfortunately it is oto- and nephrotoxic in large doses. The negative effects are thought to be due to the formation of free radicals which is why strong antioxidants and iron chelators like 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) are of great interest. This study estimates cellular quantitative changes in the utricular macula of mice following systemic treatment with kanamycin alone or in combination with DHB. The animals were injected with either saline, kanamycin or kanamycin + DHB for 15 days and perfusion fixed three weeks after last injection. Total volume of the utricle, as well as total number of hair and supporting cells, were estimated on light microscopic sections. Total volume and mean volume of hair cell types I and II and supporting cells were estimated on digital transmission electron micrographs. Total volume of the utricular macula, hair cell type I and supporting cells decreased significantly in animals injected with kanamycin but not in animals co-treated with DHB. Hair and supporting cell numbers remained unchanged in all three groups. In conclusion, the kanamycin-induced volume reduction of type I hair cells was attenuated by DHB.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE ::: Alternating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis mechanisms would lead to multiple organs dysfunction or failure. Herein, we attempt to assess whether hypothalamic inflammation and ischemic and oxidative damage that occurred during heatstroke (HS) can be affected by hyperbaric oxygen (HBO₂) therapy in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In this study, anesthetized diabetic rats, immediately after the onset of HS, were divided into two major groups and given the normobaric air (21% O₂ at 1.0 atmospheres absolute) or HBO₂ (100% O₂ at 2.0 atmospheres absolute). HS was induced by exposing the animals to heat stress (43°C). Another group of anesthetized diabetic rats was kept at normothermic state and used as controls. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The survival time values for the HBO2-treated HS-diabetic rats increased form the control values of 78-82 minutes to new values of 184-208 minutes. HBO₂ therapy caused a reduction of HS-induced cellular ischemia (e.g., increased cellular levels of glutamate and lactate/pyruvate ratio), hypoxia (e.g., decreased cellular levels of PO₂), inflammation (e.g., increased cellular levels of interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and myeloperoxidase), and oxidative damage (e.g., increased values of nitric oxide, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, glycerol, and neuronal damage score) in the hypothalamus of the diabetic rats. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Our results suggest that, in diabetic animals, HBO2 therapy may improve outcomes of HS in part by reducing heat-induced activated inflammation and ischemic and oxidative damage in the hypothalamus and other brain regions.
Neutrophil-derived oxygen metabolites are thought to play an important role in the genesis of acute lung injury in a variety of diseases. In an effort to find an agent that might limit the injury, we evaluated the beneficial effects of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB), a drug that has been safely administered to humans as an iron-chelating agent. Because experimental evidence has demonstrated that DHB can act as an inhibitor of free radical-induced reactions, we tested its protective effect against the neutrophil-dependent lung injury that occurs in rats after the intravenous infusion of cobra venom factor (CVF). Using a permeability index that measures the amount of intravenously administered 125I-albumin that accumulates in lung tissue, we found that pretreatment with DHB reduced (p less than 0.05) the lung injury in CVF-treated rats in a dose-dependent manner. Morphometric analysis of lung tissue indicated that the protection by DHB was not caused by inhibition of CVF-induced neutrophil sequestration within the lung vasculature. Because iron-saturated DHB did not attenuate lung injury, and because in vitro experiments demonstrated that DHB inhibited iron-hydrogen peroxide-induced peroxidation of phospholipid liposomes, we suspect that DHB may be protecting the lung via chelation of iron. We conclude that dihydroxybenzoic acid protects the rat lung from the neutrophil-dependent lung injury that occurs after cobra venom factor infusion. Because this drug has been safely administered to humans, it may have potential as an agent to prevent acute lung injury.
Catharanthus roseus is a terpenoid indole-alkaloid (TIA) producing plant. More than 100 TIAs have been identified in this species, including the anti-tumor agents vincristine and vinblastine (dimeric) and the anti-hypertensive ajmalicine. Other simple phenolic metabolites (C6C1) probably involved in the interaction of this plant species with its environment have also been detected (reviewed by Mustafa and Verpoorte 2007) . Among these, salicylic acid (SA)-a compound derived from chorismate, the end-product of the shikimate pathway-functions as a signal compound in plants to induce a defense system known as systemic acquired resistance (SAR), a response to a pathogenic attack (Ryals et al. 1996) . However, chorismate is the substrate of five different enzymes involved in the production of various secondary metabolites (reviewed by Mustafa and Verpoorte 2005) so that the possibility of distinguishing SA-dependent and independent pathways would contribute to gain more insight in SAR related secondary metabolite production. The level of SA increases in plants attacked by pathogens, e.g., tobacco mosaic virus (Verberne et al. 2000) or Pythium aphanidermatum (Mustafa et al. 2009 ). Elicitation with Pythium extract also produced an increase of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA; Moreno et al. 1994; Budi Muljono et al. 2002) and tryptamine (Moreno et al. 1996) in C. roseus suspension cells. However, Pythium extract is a mixture of compounds, which may activate different parts of the SAR pathways employing diverse signaling compounds. In order to identify exclusively SA affected metabolites, NMR spectroscopy in combination with multivariate data analysis, a powerful tool for plant metabolite studies, was used. There are numerous successful examples of its application, such as the discrimination between healthy and phytoplasma infected C. roseus leaves (Choi et al. 2004) , the metabolic profiling of Passiflora garckei (Fraccaroli et al. 2008 ) and the differentiation between Tabernaemontana divaricata cell suspension cultures before and after cryopreservation (Suhartono et al. 2005) .
Acinetobacter baumannii is a gram-negative opportunistic pathogen that causes nosocomial infections such as pneumonia, urinary tract infection, bacteremia, meningitis, and wound infection (1) . The bacteria cause illness mostly in patients hospitalized in an intensive care unit (ICU) or with a compromised immune system (2) . Additionally, this bacterium is emerging as multi-or pandrug-resistant, which makes treatment much more difficult (3) (4) (5) . Thus, the rate of mortality is relatively high (6) and alternative therapeutic targets seem to be necessary to combat the bacterium. Iron is an essential micronutrient for all living organisms. All aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, except for Lactobacillus and the causative agent of Lyme disease, need iron for survival (7) . Iron, functioning as a cofactor, has a significant role in the key metabolic processes and pathogenesis of bacteria (8) . In mammals, free iron binds to carrier proteins such as lactoferrin and transferrin (9) , and thus the iron needed for bacterial pathogenesis is restricted. This is considered to be a protective mechanism against bacterial pathogenesis (10) (11) (12) . Bacteria have developed alternative mechanisms for iron uptake to overcome this limitation. One of the most important mechanisms is synthesis and secretion of siderophores. Siderophores have a low molecular weight and a high affinity to Fe(III) (13) . Consequently, iron-regulated outer membrane proteins (IROMPs) are expressed on the bacterial surface to uptake the ferricsiderophore complex (14) . For A. baumannii, iron uptake is one of the processes known to play a key role in infection and establishment in the host (15) . Acinetobactin, a catecholate siderophore composed of equimolar quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, L-threonine, and N-hydroxy histamine, is secreted for iron chelating in A. baumannii (16) . Uptake of the ferric-acinetobactin complex into the periplasmic space relies on the baumannii acinetobactin utilization (BauA) protein (17) . BauA is the most important outer membrane protein in pathogenic Acinetobacter species and especially Acinetobacter baumannii, belonging to the TonB-dependent transporter protein family, and it is expressed under iron-limited conditions (18, 19) . Similar to other gram-negative bacterial siderophore-Fe receptors, BauA is composed of 2 domains, the cork and the β-barrel. The latter is composed of 22 transmembrane antiparallel β-strands. The cork is the smallest domain of the protein and is composed of 4 antiparallel hydrophobic β-strands at the N-terminal. The cork domain functions as a plug that keeps the barrel domain channel closed in the absence of the ferric-acinetobactin complex (18) . This study encompasses construction of a recombinant protein from conserved antigenic domains of cork and the β-barrel to evaluate their immunogenic role in a mice model.
The survival time values for the HBO2-treated HS-diabetic rats increased form the control values of 78-82 minutes to new values of 184-208 minutes. HBO2 therapy caused a reduction of HS-induced cellular ischemia (e.g., increased cellular levels of glutamate and lactate/pyruvate ratio), hypoxia (e.g., decreased cellular levels of PO2), inflammation (e.g., increased cellular levels of interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and myeloperoxidase), and oxidative damage (e.g., increased values of nitric oxide, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, glycerol, and neuronal damage score) in the hypothalamus of the diabetic rats.
The adenylation domain of nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) is responsible for the selective substrate recognition and its activation (as an acyl-O-AMP intermediate) during ATP consumption. DhbE, a stand-alone adenylation domain, acts on an aromatic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). This activation is the initial step of the synthesis of bacillibactin that is a high-affinity small-molecule iron chelator also termed siderophore. Subsequently, the activated DHB is transferred and attached covalently to a peptidyl carrier protein domain via a thioester bond. Adenylation domains belong to the superfamily of adenylate-forming enzymes including acetyl-CoA synthetase, acyl-CoA synthetase and firefly luciferase. We previously reported a novel N-acylation reaction for an acyl-CoA synthetase (AcsA) that originally catalyzes the formation of a thioester bond between an acid and CoA, yielding acyl-CoA. This novel reaction was also confirmed for acetyl-CoA synthetase and firefly luciferase, but not yet for an adenylation domain. Here, we for the first time demonstrated the synthesis of N-acyl-L-cysteine by a stand-alone adenylation domain, DhbE. When DHB and L-cysteine were used as substrates of DhbE, N-DHB-L-cysteine was formed. A Vmax value of 0.0156±0.0008 units mg−1 and Km values of 150±18.3 mM for L-cysteine and 0.0579±0.0260 mM for DHB were obtained in this novel reaction. Furthermore, DhbE synthesized N-benzoyl-L-cysteine when benzoic acid and L-cysteine were used as substrates. Through the N-acylation reaction of DhbE, we also succeeded in the synthesis of N-aromatic acyl compounds that have never previously been reported to be produced by this enzymatic method.
Both iron and precipitated haemoglobin may catalyse the formation of free radicals, which in turn react with the polyunsaturated fatty acids of membranes leading to membrane failure and cell death. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), a recently identified, orally effective iron-chelating drug, inhibited membrane peroxidation in vitro in H2O2-stressed erythrocytes from patients with beta-thalassaemia major, beta-thalassaemia intermedia, haemoglobin Köln disease and sickle cell disease. We present evidence suggesting that the inhibition of peroxidation is due to ability of 2,3-DHB to scavenge free radicals via quinone formation, a mechanism analogous to that proposed for vitamin E.
Abstract The purpose of the current study was to explore the effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonists (MK-801 and LY235959) administered intracerebroventricularly on the changes of both core temperature and hypothalamic levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) induced by intracerebroventricular injection of glutamate (100 – 400 µ g at 10 µ l/rabbit) or intravenous administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (2 µ g/kg) in rabbits. The measurements of 2,3-DHBA were used as an index of the intrahypothalamic levels of hydroxyl radicals. The rise in both the core temperature and hypothalamic 2,3-DHBA could be induced by intracerebroventricular injection of glutamate or intravenous administration of LPS. The glutamate- or LPS-induced fever and increased hypothalamic levels of 2,3-DHBA were significantly antagonized by pretreatment with injection of MK-801 or LY235959 1 h before glutamate or LPS injection. The increased levels of prostaglandin E 2 in the hypothalamus induced by glutamate or LPS could be suppressed by MK-801 or LY235959. The data demonstrate that prior antagonism of NMDA receptors in the brain, in addition to reducing prostaglandin E 2 production in the hypothalamus, suppresses both the glutamate- and LPS-induced fever and increased hypothalamic hydroxyl radicals.
Inosine was found to form 1 : 1 crystalline complexes with 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, 3,4-, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids, and with 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, but was found to give no crystalline complex with benzoic acid, o-, m-, p-hydroxybenzoic acids, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, or 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid.
Elevation of cell iron content was produced by use of a lipophilic iron ligand, 8-hydroxyquinoline (HQ), capable of transferring catalytically active iron into cells. The Fe(3+)-HQ complex labeled with 59Fe was avidly taken up by isolated perfused hearts contrary to the hydrophilic complex Fe(3+)-citrate. Hearts perfused in aerobic conditions with Krebs-Henseleit buffer were exposed for 15 min to the iron complexes, Fe(3+)-HQ (5 microM/10 microM and 10 microM/20 microM), or Fe(3+)-citrate (10 microM), and then perfused for 30 min with normal buffer. Exposure to the high dose of Fe(3+)-HQ (10 microM/20 microM) resulted in early and irreversible decreases in coronary flow and heart rate (-48% and -33%, respectively), initial increases followed by decreases in left ventricular systolic pressure and +dP/dt, and increase in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (+80%). The low dose of Fe(3+)-HQ (5 microM/10 microM) mimicked with a lower magnitude the effects of the high dose, whereas Fe(3+)-citrate had no effects on cardiac parameters. Only hearts exposed to the high dose of Fe(3+)-HQ exhibited a significant increase (+60%) in thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance level, an index of lipid peroxidation. The production of hydroxyl radicals was investigated by measuring 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid level in the coronary effluent after addition of salicylic acid (1 mM) in the perfusate. An immediate and high increase (x6) was seen during heart exposure to Fe(3+)-HQ (10 microM/20 microM) and to Fe(3+)-citrate (10 microM). Considering Fe(3+)-citrate had no effect on cardiac function and lipid peroxidation it was concluded that this hydroxyl radical formation occurring in the extracellular space was not implicated in Fe(3+)-HQ-induced cardiac dysfunction. These results demonstrate the deleterious effect of increasing intracellular reactive iron level in non-ischemic hearts.
The human pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii produces a siderophore called acinetobactin that is derived from one molecule each of threonine, histidine, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). The activity of several nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) enzymes is used to combine the building blocks into the final molecule. The acinetobactin synthesis pathway initiates with a self-standing adenylation enzyme, BasE, that activates the DHB molecule and covalently transfers it to the pantetheine cofactor of an aryl-carrier protein of BasF, a strategy that is shared with many siderophore-producing NRPS clusters. In this reaction, DHB reacts with ATP to form the aryl adenylate and pyrophosphate. In a second partial reaction, the DHB is transferred to the carrier protein. Inhibitors of BasE and related enzymes have been identified that prevent growth of bacteria on iron-limiting media. Recently, a new inhibitor of BasE has been identified via high-throughput screening using a fluorescence polarization displacement assay. We present here biochemical and structural studies to examine the binding mode of this inhibitor. The kinetics of the wild-type BasE enzyme is shown, and inhibition studies demonstrate that the new compound exhibits competitive inhibition against both ATP and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate. Structural examination of BasE bound to this inhibitor illustrates a novel binding mode in which the phenyl moiety partially fills the enzyme pantetheine binding tunnel. Structures of rationally designed bisubstrate inhibitors are also presented.
The adenylation domain of nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) is responsible for the selective substrate recognition and its activation (as an acyl-O-AMP intermediate) during ATP consumption. DhbE, a stand-alone adenylation domain, acts on an aromatic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). This activation is the initial step of the synthesis of bacillibactin that is a high-affinity small-molecule iron chelator also termed siderophore. Subsequently, the activated DHB is transferred and attached covalently to a peptidyl carrier protein domain via a thioester bond. Adenylation domains belong to the superfamily of adenylate-forming enzymes including acetyl-CoA synthetase, acyl-CoA synthetase and firefly luciferase. We previously reported a novel N-acylation reaction for an acyl-CoA synthetase (AcsA) that originally catalyzes the formation of a thioester bond between an acid and CoA, yielding acyl-CoA. This novel reaction was also confirmed for acetyl-CoA synthetase and firefly luciferase, but not yet for an adenylation domain. Here, we for the first time demonstrated the synthesis of N-acyl-L-cysteine by a stand-alone adenylation domain, DhbE. When DHB and L-cysteine were used as substrates of DhbE, N-DHB-L-cysteine was formed. A V max value of 0.0156 ± 0.0008 units mg − 1 and K m values of 150 ± 18.3 mM for L-cysteine and 0.0579 ± 0.0260 mM for DHB were obtained in this novel reaction. Furthermore, DhbE synthesized N-benzoyl-L-cysteine when benzoic acid and L-cysteine were used as substrates. Through the N-acylation reaction of DhbE, we also succeeded in the synthesis of N-aromatic acyl compounds that have never previously been reported to be produced by this enzymatic method.
The relationship between hydroxyl radical (OH·) generation in the zone of ischemia/reperfusion and the size of infarction formed was investigated in 18-22-week-old anaesthetized male SHRSP and Wistar rats using a myocardial microdialysis technique. The marker of OH· generation, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), was analyzed in dialyzates by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Myocardial ischemia was induced by ligation of the descending branch of the left main coronary artery for 30 min. The mean value of basal 2,3-DHBA level in the dialyzate samples from SHRSP (243 ± 21 pg for 30 min) was significantly higher than that from Wistar rats (91 ± 4 pg for 30 min, p < 0.0002); it positively correlated with left ventricular hypertrophy (r = 0.806; p < 0.05). During reperfusion total 2,3-DHBA output was 1.8-fold higher in SHRSP than in Wistar rats (659 ± 60 pg versus 364 ± 66 pg for 60 min, respectively, p < 0.0002). At the same time, 2,3-DHBA increase above the basal level was the same in Wistar and SHRSP rats (181 ± 25 and 172 ± 36 pg for 60 min, respectively). The infarct size in SHRSP (45.4 ± 4.3%) was significantly higher (p < 0.05) than in Wistar rats (32.8 ± 3.3%). There was a significant positive correlation between basal level of 2,3-DHBA and total reperfusion 2,3-DHBA content in SHRSP (r = 0.752; p < 0.05). Thus, data obtained clearly indicate that the hypertrophied myocardium of SHRSP was less tolerant to ischemia/reperfusion than that of Wistar rats due to chronically increased OH· production and enhanced total OH· output during reperfusion. Greater myocardial damage in SHRSP than in Wistar rats following the equal increase in OH· production above the basal level suggests the existence of deficit of the antioxidant defense in the hypertrophied myocardium.
Catecholate type enterobactin, a prototype siderophore, comprises 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) cyclically linked to serine in E. coli. The existence of iron-chelating ligands in humans is a recent discovery, however, the basic chemical interactions between 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and Fe(III) ion remain poorly understood. Achieving an accurate description of the fundamental Fe(III) binding properties of 2,5-DHBA is essential for understanding its role in iron transport mechanisms. Here, we show that 2,5-DHBA binds iron in a salicylate mode via a two-step kinetic mechanism by UV spectroscopy. Complexation between Fe(III) salt and 2,5-DHBA initially occurs at 1:1 ratio (of ligand to metal) and binding resulting in higher-order complexes continues at higher concentrations. Through potentiometric measurements we quantify the distribution of Fe(III)-2,5-DHBA complexes with 1:1, 1:2 and 1:3 stoichiometry. The formation of 1:3 complexes is further supported through high-resolution mass spectrometry. Further, using kinetic and equilibrium UV spectroscopy, we report Fe(III)-2,5-DHBA complex formation at a pH range of 2.5-9.0 at 298.15K in water. Maximum complexation occurred at a pH range of 4.5-6.5 consistent with deprotonation of the carboxylic acid proton. Equilibrium measurements and stopped-flow kinetics show that complexation rate constants were independent of concentrations of 2,5-DHBA. Together the data supports a model in which the rate-determining step involves rearrangement of ligands on an initial complex formed by reversible binding between the carboxylate group of 2,5-DHBA and Fe(III).
Abstract The effect of artificially elevated cell iron content on oxygen-derived free radical production was assessed in brain slices by use of an iron ligand, 8-hydroxyquinoline (HQ). The iron complex Fe3+-HQ exhibited a high lipid solubility evidenced by n-octanol/water partition coefficient and was avidely taken up by brain slices. The catalytically active form of Fe3+ within the complex was evidenced by measuring the rate of ascorbate oxidation. Lipid peroxidation was assessed by measuring the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) in brain homogenates or slices exposed to two doses of Fe3+-HQ (10 μM/20 μM, 100 μM/200 μM) or Fe3+-citrate (10 μM, 100 μM). Addition of the iron complexes to homogenates or slices resulted in a dose-dependent increase in lipid peroxidation. In homogenates, the effects were grossly similar with both complexes, whereas in slices the effects of Fe-HQ were significantly higher than those of Fe-citrate. Lipid peroxidation persisted in washed slices preexposed to Fe-HQ, but not in slices preexposed to the hydrophilic iron complex Fe-citrate. Fe-HQ-induced lipid peroxidation in slices was enhanced in the presence of H2O2, an effect that was not seen using Fe-citrate. Addition of Fe-HQ to brain homogenates in the presence of salicylic acid resulted in the production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and the effect was potentiated in the presence of H2O2. This model of iron cell loading may be useful for evaluating the efficacy of antioxidant drugs.
The Escherichia coli gene cluster encoding enzymatic activities responsible for the synthesis and activation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the formation of the catechol siderophore enterobactin was localized to a 4.2-kilobase chromosomal DNA fragment. Analysis of various subclones and transposon insertion mutations confirmed the previously suggested gene order as entEBG(AC) and provided evidence to suggest that these genes are organized as three independent transcriptional units, composed of entE, entBG, and entAC, with the entBG mRNA transcribed in a clockwise direction. Plasmid-specific protein expression in E. coli minicells identified EntE and EntB as 58,000- and 32,500-dalton proteins, respectively, while no protein corresponding to EntG was detected. The EntA and EntC enzymatic activities could not be separated by genetic or molecular studies. A small DNA fragment encoding both activities expressed a single 26,000-dalton polypeptide, suggesting that this protein is a multifunctional enzyme catalyzing two nonsequential reactions in the biosynthetic pathway. A protein of approximately 15,000 daltons appears to be encoded by the chromosomal region adjacent to the entAC gene, but no known function in enterobactin biosynthesis or transport can yet be ascribed to this polypeptide.
Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) has been widely used in the mass analysis of biomolecules; however, there are a lot of debates about the ionization mechanisms. Previous studies have indicated that S1-S1 annihilation might be a key process in the generation of primary ions. This study investigates S1-S1 annihilation by examining the time-resolved fluorescence spectra of 12 matrices. No S1-S1 annihilation was observed in six of these matrices (3-hydroxy-picolinic acid, 6-aza-2-thiothymine, 2,4-dihydroxy-acetophenone, 2,6-dihydroxy-acetophenone, 2,4,6-trihydroxy-acetophenone, and ferulic acid). We observed two matrix molecules reacting in an electronically excited state (S1) in five of these matrices (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid, 2,5-dihydroxy-acetophenone, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid), and S1-S1 annihilation was a possible reaction. Among these five matrices, no S1-S1 annihilation was observed for 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in typical peak power region of nanosecond laser pulses in MALDI, but a very small value of reaction rate constant was observed only in the high peak power region. The excited-state lifetime of sinapinic acid was too short to determine whether the molecules reacted in an electronically excited state. No correlation was observed between the ion generation efficiency of MALDI and S1-S1 annihilation. The results indicate that the proposal of S1-S1 annihilation is unnecessary in MALDI and energy pooling model for MALDI ionization mechanism has to be modified.
The dependence of the ultrafast relaxation kinetics of the S 2 and S 1 states in β -carotene homologs and lycopene on conjugation length studied by femtosecond time-resolved absorption and Kerr-gate fluorescence spectroscopies J. Chem. Phys. 130, 214506 (2009) Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) has been widely used in the mass analysis of biomolecules; however, there are a lot of debates about the ionization mechanisms. Previous studies have indicated that S 1 -S 1 annihilation might be a key process in the generation of primary ions. This study investigates S 1 -S 1 annihilation by examining the time-resolved fluorescence spectra of 12 matrices. No S 1 -S 1 annihilation was observed in six of these matrices (3-hydroxy-picolinic acid, 6-aza-2-thiothymine, 2,4-dihydroxy-acetophenone, 2,6-dihydroxy-acetophenone, 2,4,6-trihydroxyacetophenone, and ferulic acid). We observed two matrix molecules reacting in an electronically excited state (S 1 ) in five of these matrices (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid, 2,5-dihydroxy-acetophenone, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid), and S 1 -S 1 annihilation was a possible reaction. Among these five matrices, no S 1 -S 1 annihilation was observed for 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in typical peak power region of nanosecond laser pulses in MALDI, but a very small value of reaction rate constant was observed only in the high peak power region. The excited-state lifetime of sinapinic acid was too short to determine whether the molecules reacted in an electronically excited state. No correlation was observed between the ion generation efficiency of MALDI and S 1 -S 1 annihilation. The results indicate that the proposal of S 1 -S 1 annihilation is unnecessary in MALDI and energy pooling model for MALDI ionization mechanism has to be modified.
Different compounds that reduce Fe(III) and that simultaneously increase the oxidation potential of the H 2 O 2 /Fe 2+ system, have been evaluated. In this work, the improving of Fenton reactions by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) or 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (CAT) were studied. The three compounds are able to reduce Fe(III) to Fe(II), but the kinetic results depend on the method used to determine the Fe(II) ion, The dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs) degrades veratryl alcohol (VA), a lignin model compound, to a greater extent than observed in a typical Fenton reaction. The rate of VA degradation was associated with the duration of the chemiluminescence (CAT > 2,3-DHBA > 3,4-DHBA) and not with the sum of integrated counts. The treatment of a cellulose pulp bleaching effluent with DHBs/Fe(III)/H 2 O 2 was evaluated by analyzing their depolymerization at pH 4 and 7 through molecular mass distribution determinations.
The wood of blue-stain diseased lodgepole pine has been examined for the presence of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and ceratenolone, compounds believed to be responsible, in the form of their ferric chelates, for the blue coloration of the diseased wood. These compounds were not detected. Dehydroabietic acid, 15-hydroxydehydroabietic acid, 7α- and 7β-hydroxydehydroabietic acid, and 7-oxodehydroabietic acid were isolated. The 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectra and mass spectra of the above mentioned compounds are reported.
Inhibition of siderophore biosynthetic pathways in pathogenic bacteria represents a promising strategy for antibacterial drug development. Escherichia coli synthesize and secrete the small molecule iron chelator siderophore, enterobactin, in response to intracellular iron depletion. Here we describe a detailed kinetic analysis of EntE, one of six enzymes in the enterobactin synthetase gene cluster. EntE catalyzes the ATP-dependent condensation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and phosphopantetheinylated EntB (holo-EntB) to form covalently arylated EntB, a product that is vital for the final assembly of enterobactin. Initial velocity studies show that EntE proceeds via a bi-uni-uni-bi ping-pong kinetic mechanism with a k(cat) equal to 2.8 s(-1) and K(m) values of 2.5, 430, and 2.9 microM for DHB, ATP, and holo-EntB-ArCP, respectively. Inhibition and direct binding experiments suggest that, during the first half-reaction (adenylation), DHB binds first to the free enzyme, followed by ATP and the release of pyrophosphate to form the adenylate intermediate. During the second half-reaction (ligation), phosphopantetheinylated EntB binds to the enzyme followed by the release of products, AMP and arylated EntB. Two hydrolytically stable adenylate analogues, 5'-O-[N-(salicyl)sulfamoyl]adenosine (Sal-AMS) and 5'-O-[N-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)sulfamoyl]adenosine (DHB-AMS), are shown to act as slow-onset tight-binding inhibitors of the enzyme with (app)K(i) values of 0.9 and 3.8 nM, respectively. Direct binding experiments, via isothermal titration calorimetry, reveal low picomolar dissociation constants for both analogues with respect to EntE. The tight binding of Sal-AMS and DHB-AMS to EntE suggests that these compounds may be developed further as effective antibiotics targeted to this enzyme.
Catechol-type siderophores secreted by a strain of soil bacteria in three different medium were assayed by two high-resolution TLC.The results showed different medium had a significant effect on the secretion of catechol-type siderophores,and in three different medium strain S1 produced different catechol-type siderophores.The effect of Al~(3+) on Catechol-type siderophores by S1 were also assayed.The results showed Al~(3+)had a significant stimulation on the secretion of catechol-type siderophores.Moreover,Al~(3+)could to some extent counteract the repression of Fe~(2+)on siderophores production.In KMB medium four catechol-type siderophores were identified and all ones except for 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2,3-DHBA) had high affinity for Al~(3+).
The growth of Rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides in iron-deficient medium did not result in the production of detectable levels of siderophores of either the catechol or hydroxamate type. Iron-limited cultures of R. sphaeroides were not able to remove iron from ferric transferrin unless supplemented with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. R. sphaeroides was shown to take up 59Fe+3 when it was supplied as ferric chloride, ferric citrate, or ferric parabactin, but not when supplied as ferric rhodotorulate or ferric Desferal. When iron was supplied as ferric citrate, citrate was not taken up by the cells. The growth rate of R. sphaeroides under iron-limiting conditions was decreased by the addition of either Desferal or rhodotorulic acid, while the addition of citrate or parabactin did not affect growth.
We report the effects of the free radical scavengers, salicylic acid and bifemerane HC1, on the survival of hippocampal neurons in the Mongolin gerbil model of ischemia-reperfusion brain damage. In addition to performing histological examinations, we used the salicylate-trapping method to measure the amounts of hydroxyl radicals generated in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus. Ischemia-reperfusion significantly reduced the number of neurons in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. The decrease was largely prevented by pretreating the animals with either salicylate, 20 mg/kg, or bifemerane HC1, 25 mg/kg. Administering salicylate to the animals 30 minutes after reperfusion was also effective, but bifemerane HC1 was ineffective when given after reperfusion. Two minutes after post-ischemic reperfusion, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels were significantly elevated in the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, and 2, 5-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels were significantly elevated in the hippocampus. The increase in 2,5-dyhydroxybenzoic acid in the hippocampus was suppressed by bifemerane HC1 given 30 minutes before exposure to ischemia. These results suggest that hydroxyl radicals are generated in the gerbil model of ischemia-reperfusion brain injury, and that salicylate and bifemerane HC1 partially prevent the loss of neurons in the hippocampus. Hydroxyl radical scavengers may be useful in reducing neuronal damage associated with ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Gentian root extract is used as a bitter food additive in Japan. We investigated the constituents of this extract to acquire the chemical data needed for standardized specifications. Fourteen known compounds were isolated in addition to a mixture of gentisin and isogentisin: anofinic acid, 2-methoxyanofinic acid, furan-2-carboxylic acid, 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furfural, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, isovitexin, gentiopicroside, loganic acid, sweroside, vanillic acid, gentisin 7-O-primeveroside, isogentisin 3-O-primeveroside, 6'-O-glucosylgentiopicroside, and swertiajaposide D. Moreover, a new compound, loganic acid 7-(2'-hydroxy-3'-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl)benzoate (1), was also isolated. HPLC was used to analyze gentiopicroside and amarogentin, defined as the main constituents of gentian root extract in the List of Existing Food Additives in Japan.
1. The effect of iron chelators on iron uptake, ferritin and total protein synthesis was studied in cultured Chang cells. Desferrioxamine depressed ferritin synthesis and completely inhibited iron uptake by ferritin protein. Rhodotorulic acid reduced iron uptake by the cells but had little effect on ferritin synthesis. Diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid produced complete inhibition of iron uptake and all protein synthesis. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) had no effect in this system. 2. When 2,3-DHB was incubated with a liver homogenate, its subsequent addition to a Chang cell culture resulted in depression of ferritin synthesis, iron uptake into the protein and some depression of total protein synthesis. Pretreatment of rhodotorulic acid did not affect its properties. 3. Non-ferritin iron in the Chang cell cytosol was dialysable, available for binding to transferrin and formed chelates which appeared, on gel chromatography, to be of low molecular weight. Gel chromatography of cytosol after incubation of the cells with chelating agents showed non-ferritin iron to be in a similar form. 4. Loss of non-ferritin iron from the cells occurred only when the transferrin in the medium was unsaturated. In the presence of chelating agents non-ferritin iron was lost from the cells even when transferrin was 100% saturated. 5. The results confirm the presence of an intracellular labile iron pool which is available for chelation, and demonstrate that different iron chelators have different metabolic effects.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid-(carboxyl-14C) can be synthesized in high overall yield from commercially-available 2,3-dimethoxybenzoic acid. The synthetic route features the application of a Curtius rearrangement, the thermal decomposition of a carboxylic acid azide to an isocyanate. The method is suitable for the preparation of the title compound on both micro and semimicro scales.
The intensity of hydroxyl radical (OH?) formation in the myocardium during reperfusion after ischemia of different duration was evaluated using microdialysis with sodium salicylate. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, a product of OH? trapping by salicylic acid, was used as a marker of OH? generation in the postischemic myocardium. Experiments were performed on open-chest anesthetized and jet-ventilated Wistar rats. The concentrations of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the dialysate were measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. Experiments showed that the intensity and duration of free oxygen radical generation during reperfusion after 30-min ischemia far surpassed those observed after 20-min ischemia.
In order to assimilate iron, Acinetobacter baumannii ATCC 19606(T) produces a siderophore named acinetobactin (Ab) that is composed of equimolar quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), L-threonine and N-hydroxyhistamine. Application of the Fur titration assay system to A. baumannii genomic libraries, followed by further cloning of the regions surrounding the candidate genes, led to the identification of the Ab cluster, which harbours the genetic determinants necessary for the biosynthesis and transport of the siderophore. However, an entA homologue essential for DHBA biosynthesis was not found in this cluster. Functions of potential biosynthetic genes inferred by homology studies suggested that the precursors, DHBA, l-threonine and N-hydroxyhistamine, are linked in steps resembling those of bacterial non-ribosomal peptide synthesis to form Ab. Genes responsible for the two-step biosynthesis of N-hydroxyhistamine from histidine were also identified in this cluster. Their genetic organization suggests that five genes involved in the transport system of ferric Ab into the cell cytosol form an operon. Construction of disruptants of some selected genes followed by phenotypic analysis supported their predicted biological functions. Interestingly, three additional genes probably involved in the intracellular release of iron from ferric Ab and the secretion of nascent Ab are contained in this cluster. Primer extension and RT-PCR analyses suggested that the Ab cluster, which includes 18 genes, is organized in seven transcriptional units originating from respective Fur-regulated promoter-operator regions.
1. The effect of iron chelators on iron uptake, ferritin and total protein synthesis was studied in cultured Chang cells. Desferrioxamine depressed ferritin synthesis and completely inhibited iron uptake by ferritin protein. Rhodotorulic acid reduced iron uptake by the cells but had little effect on ferritin synthesis. Diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid produced complete inhibition of iron uptake and all protein synthesis. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) had no effect in this system.
T produces a siderophore named acinetobactin (Ab) that is composed of equimolar quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), L-threonine and N-hydroxyhistamine. Application of the Fur titration assay system to A. baumannii genomic libraries, followed by further cloning of the regions surrounding the candidate genes, led to the identification of the Ab cluster, which harbours the genetic determinants necessary for the biosynthesis and transport of the siderophore. However, an entA homologue essential for DHBA biosynthesis was not found in this cluster. Functions of potential biosynthetic genes inferred by homology studies suggested that the precursors, DHBA, L-threonine and N-hydroxyhistamine, are linked in steps resembling those of bacterial non-ribosomal peptide synthesis to form Ab. Genes responsible for the two-step biosynthesis of N-hydroxyhistamine from histidine were also identified in this cluster. Their genetic organization suggests that five genes involved in the transport system of ferric Ab into the cell cytosol form an operon. Construction of disruptants of some selected genes followed by phenotypic analysis supported their predicted biological functions. Interestingly, three additional genes probably involved in the intracellular release of iron from ferric Ab and the secretion of nascent Ab are contained in this cluster. Primer extension and RT-PCR analyses suggested that the Ab cluster, which includes 18 genes, is organized in seven transcriptional units originating from respective Fur-regulated promoter-operator regions.
A novel siderophore, called acinetobactin, with both catecholate and hydroxamate functional groups was isolated from low-iron cultures of Acinetobacter baumannii ATCC 19606. The structure was elucidated by chemical degradation, fast-atom bombardment mass spectrometry and 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy. Acinetobactin was composed of ω-N-hydroxyhistamine, threonine and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the last two components forming an oxazoline ring. Acinetobactin was structurally related to anguibactin, a plasmid-encoded siderophore of Vibrio anguillarum. The only difference was that acinetobactin possessed an oxazoline ring instead of a thiazoline ring. Four of 12 other clinical A. baumannii strains examined produced acinetobactin, indicative of strain-to-strain variation in the ability to produce acinetobactin. In addition, a relatively small amount of acinetobactin was also detected in A. haemolyticus ATCC 17906.
Twenty compounds, including a new lignan amide, were isolated from the aerial parts of New Zealand spinach, Tetragonia tetragonoides (Pall.) Kuntze, which is an edible halophyte. These compounds were identified by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance experiments to be N-2,3-dihydroxy-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenol)tyramine (new compound), methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, syringaldehyde, ethyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, coniferyl alcohol, methyl caffeoate, trans- and cis-coumaroyl-β-d-glucopyranosides, trans- and cis-feruloyl-β-d-glucopyranosides, caffeic acid, staphylionoside E, canabiside D, apocyanol A, megastima-5,7-diene-3,4,9-triol, 1-O-oleoyl-3-O-β-d-galactopyranosyl-sn-glycerol, 5,5′-dimethyl-lariciresinol, and kaempferol 3-O-β-d-glucopyranoside. These compounds were identified in New Zealand spinach for the first time.
A catechol-type siderophore was produced extracellularly by Rhizobium sp. strain BICC 651 isolated from Cicer arietinum during growth in iron-deficient medium. Production of the siderophore was fully repressed in the presence of 50 μM Fe3+. The siderophore was purified and characterized as containing 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) as the core compound and threonine as its conjugate. The siderophore was able to reverse growth inhibition of the strain induced by ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenyl-acetic acid) (EDDA). A high-affinity iron-transport system capable of transporting 59Fe-siderophore complex was also induced in Rhizobium BICC 651 grown under iron deficiency. Two protein bands of molecular masses 76 and 82 kDa were also inductively synthesized in the outer membrane of the cells. A partially purified ferrireductase enzyme of Rhizobium BICC 651 catalysed reductive release of iron from the ferric chelate of DHBA. The enzyme had a K ::: m of 0.3 mM for ferri-DHBA, was constitutive in nature, and was present in the cytosolic fraction during growth under both iron-deficient and iron-sufficient conditions. The enzyme occurred as two isoenzymes with R ::: F values of 0.48 and 0.51, respectively, in a nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel.
Abstract The effect of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3DHBA, pyrocatechuic acid) on the chloro-alkoxo-species [TaCl5−x(OMe)x], formed by dissolving TaCl5 in MeOH, has been studied. The coordination of 2,3DHBA-H2− on Ta (V) replacing MeO-terminal groups was monitored via NMR spectroscopy. The yellow solid 1 was isolated from the mixture of TaCl5, with neutral 2,3-DHBA, in MeOH. From this solid the elemental (C, H and Ta), the thermogravimetric analyses, the IR, NMR, ESR and electronic spectra support the formula Ta2(2,3DHBA)2(O)2Cl4(MeO)4. The ESR spectrum of solid 1, at 4.2 K, shows a half-field signal apart from a multiline signal around g = 2, supporting evidence for semiquinone and Ta (IV) presence. The occurrence of superoxide radical, in the low temperature of ESR spectrum recording, cannot be ruled out. By heating the solid 1 at 500 °C, an oxide phase showing porous character (SEM) and retaining CO2 (IR), is evident. Solid 1 heated at 900 °C, leads to the formation of β-Ta2O5 orthorhombic phase, as the XRD pattern indicates. The hydrolytic process of solid 1, in aqueous solutions, has been studied; the presence of paramagnetic species generated in situ upon addition of base and the consequent degradative process of 2,3-DHBA, under aerobic conditions is obvious. In order to gain information for the structure of solid 1, DFT calculations have been performed for some theoretical models, based on the empirical formula of solid 1. The calculated structural and spectroscopic parameters have been correlated to experimental results. The energy optimized structures may give an idea about the way of MeCl and MeOMe formation as well some possible intermediates of the hydrolytic mechanism.
HHP (hypobaric hypoxia preconditioning) induces the overexpression of HSP70 (heat-shock protein 70), as well as tolerance to cerebral ischaemia. In the present study, we hypothesized that HHP would protect against HAE (high-altitude exposure)-induced acute lung injury and oedema via promoting the expression of HSP70 in lungs prior to the onset of HAE. At 2 weeks after the start of HHP, animals were exposed to a simulated HAE of 6000 m in a hypobaric chamber for 24 h. Immediately after being returned to ambient pressure, the non-HHP animals had higher scores of alveolar oedema, neutrophil infiltration and haemorrhage, acute pleurisy (e.g. increased exudate volume, increased numbers of polymorphonuclear cells and increased lung myeloperoxidase activity), increased pro-inflammatory cytokines [e.g. TNF-α (tumour necrosis factor-α), IL (interleukin)-1β and IL-6], and increased cellular ischaemia (i.e. glutamate and lactate/pyruvate ratio) and oxidative damage [glycerol, NOx (combined nitrate+nitrite) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid] markers in the BALF (bronchoalveolar fluid). HHP, in addition to inducing overexpression of HSP70 in the lungs, significantly attenuated HAE-induced pulmonary oedema, inflammation, and ischaemic and oxidative damage in the lungs. The beneficial effects of HHP in preventing the occurrence of HAE-induced pulmonary oedema, inflammation, and ischaemic and oxidative damage was reduced significantly by pretreatment with a neutralizing anti-HSP70 antibody. In conclusion, HHP may attenuate the occurrence of pulmonary oedema, inflammation, and ischaemic and oxidative damage caused by HAE in part via up-regulating HSP70 in the lungs.
N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) lesions of the locus coeruleus, the major brain noradrenergic nucleus, exacerbate the damage to nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) terminals caused by the psychostimulant methamphetamine (METH). However, because noradrenergic terminals contain other neuromodulators and the noradrenaline (NA) transporter, which may act as a neuroprotective buffer, it was unclear whether this enhancement of METH neurotoxicity was caused by the loss of noradrenergic innervation or the loss of NA itself. We addressed the specific role of NA by comparing the effects of METH in mice with noradrenergic lesions (DSP-4) and those with intact noradrenergic terminals but specifically lacking NA (genetic or acute pharmacological blockade of the NA biosynthetic enzyme dopamine beta-hydroxylase; DBH). We found that genetic deletion of DBH (DBH-/- mice) and acute treatment of wild-type mice with a DBH inhibitor (fusaric acid) recapitulated the effects of DSP-4 lesions on METH responses. All three methods of NA depletion enhanced striatal DA release, extracellular oxidative stress (as measured by in vivo microdialysis of DA and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid), and behavioral stereotypies following repeated METH administration. These effects accompanied a worsening of the striatal DA neuron terminal damage and ultrastructural changes to medium spiny neurons. We conclude that NA itself is neuroprotective and plays a fundamental role in the sensitivity of striatal DA terminals to the neurochemical, behavioral, and neurotoxic effects of METH.
Steamed soybeans (SSB) were fermented with 30 kinds of Aspergillus strains which have been used in manufacturing Japanese fermented foods and beverages. Methanol extracts from the fermented soybeans were tested for antioxidative activity. Extract from soybeans fermented with Aspergillus saitoi, which had the strongest activity, was subjected to a silica gel column followed by preparative HPLC using ODS columns. Antioxidative principle (AS-4) was isolated and identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) by UV, EI-MS, and 1H- and 13C-NMR techniques. Among the six DHBA isomers tested in both oil and lipid/aqueous systems, 2,3-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids exhibited the greatest antioxidative activities. Since 2,3-DHBA was not found in unfermented soybeans (SSB), it was produced during the incubation with A. saitoi. Keywords: Fermented soybeans; Aspergillus spp.; Aspergillus saitoi; antioxidant; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid
Abstract We investigated the efficacy of histidine on MPP+-induced hydroxyl radical (⋅OH) formation in extracellular fluid of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol μl−1 min−1) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of ⋅OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. MPP+ (5 mM) clearly produced an increase in ⋅OH formation. However, histidine (25 mM) reduced the ⋅OH formation by the action of MPP+. These results indicate that histidine protects MPP+-induced ⋅OH formation in rat striatum.
Due to the severe damage caused by free hydroxyl radicals (OH·) to cells and tissues, there is much interest in finding and studying effective and non-toxic OH· scavengers, including traditional Chinese herbs. In this paper, the simple and highly-sensitive technique of capillary zone electrophoresis with amperometric detection (CZE-AD) was used to study the OH· scavenging activities of aqueous extracts from some traditional Chinese herbs. Salicylic acid (SAL) was used as an OH· trap, and the content of OH· could be determined by assaying their products, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA). The optimum conditions for CZE-AD for the determination of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA were explored. The linearity ranges of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA were 1.0 ×10−7~1.0 ×10−4 mol L−1, and their detection limits were as low as 2×10−8 mol L−1, which were much better than the CE-UV method often used. The traditional Chinese herbs studied included Radix angelicae sinensis, Rhizoma coptidis, Ligustrum lucidum, Ligusticum wallichii, Radices glycyrrhizae and Semen plantaginis. The experiments showed that the aqueous extracts from all of the above traditional Chinese herds had free OH· scavenging activities, although to different degrees.
Abstract Organic anionic molecules such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA23), 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA26), 5-sulfosalicylic acid (SSA) and pyrocatecholsulfonphthalein (PCS) were investigated for electrophoretic deposition (EPD) of TiO 2 and TiO 2 –multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) films from suspensions in ethanol. The adsorption of the molecules on TiO 2 surfaces was based on catecholate or salicylate binding, involving adjacent OH groups or adjacent OH and COOH groups, respectively. The adsorption of the anionic molecules allowed efficient dispersion, charging and EPD of TiO 2 . The deposition yield was studied as a function of DBA23, DBA26, SSA and PCS concentration in TiO 2 suspensions and deposition time. An important finding was the possibility of efficient dispersion, charging and EPD of MWCNT using PCS. It was shown that PCS can be used as a universal dispersing agent for co-deposition of TiO 2 and MWCNT and fabrication of composite TiO 2 –MWCNT films. The advantages of the new strategies, compared to other methods described in literature, were discussed. The deposits were studied by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, thermogravimetric analysis, differential thermal analysis and electron microscopy. The proposed approach paves the way for EPD of other oxide materials and composites.
Feeding experiments using [1-(13)C]-d-glucose to Catharanthus roseus (L.) G.Don cell suspension cultures followed by elicitation with Pythium aphanidermatum extract were performed in order to study the salicylic acid (SA) biosynthetic pathway and that of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as a comparison. A strongly labeled C-7 and a symmetrical partitioning of the label between C-2 and C-6 would occur if SA was synthesized from phenylalanine. In case of the isochorismate pathway, a relatively lower incorporation at C-7 and a non-symmetrical incorporation at C-2 and C-6 would be obtained. Relatively, high- and non-symmetrical enrichment ratios at C-2 and C-6, and a lower enrichment ratio at C-7 were observed in both SA and 2,3-DHBA detected by (13)C NMR inverse gated spectrometry leading to the conclusion that the isochorismate pathway is responsible for the biosynthesis of both compounds. However, different enrichment ratios of the labeled carbons in SA and 2,3-DHBA indicate the use of different isochorismate pools, which means that their biosynthesis is separated in time and/or space.
A catechol-type siderophore was produced extracellularly by Rhizobium sp. strain BlCC 651 isolated from Cicer arietinum during growth in iron-deficient medium. Production of the siderophore was fully repressed in the presence of te, PCalcutta 700054, India 50 pM Fe3+. The siderophore was purified and characterized as containing 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) as the core compound and threonine as its conjugate. The siderophore was able to reverse growth inhibition of the strain induced by ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenyl-acetic acid) (EDDA). A highaffinity iron-transport system capable of transporting 59Fe-siderophore complex was also induced in Rhizobium BlCC 651 grown under iron deficiency. Two protein bands of molecular masses 76 and 82 kDa were also inductively synthesized in the outer membrane of the cells. A partially purified ferrireductase enzyme of Rhizobium BlCC 651 catalysed reductive release of iron from the ferric chelate of DHBA. The enzyme had a Km of 0 3 mM for ferri-DHBA, was constitutive in nature, and was present in the cytosolic fraction during growth under both iron-def icient and iron-suff icient conditions. The enzyme occurred as two isoenzymes with RF values of 048 and 051, respectively, in a nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel.
HHP (hypobaric hypoxia preconditioning) induces the overexpression of HSP70 (heat-shock protein 70), as well as tolerance to cerebral ischaemia. In the present study, we hypothesized that HHP would protect against HAE (high-altitude exposure)-induced acute lung injury and oedema via promoting the expression of HSP70 in lungs prior to the onset of HAE. At 2 weeks after the start of HHP, animals were exposed to a simulated HAE of 6000 m in a hypobaric chamber for 24 h. Immediately after being returned to ambient pressure, the non-HHP animals had higher scores of alveolar oedema, neutrophil infiltration and haemorrhage, acute pleurisy (e.g. increased exudate volume, increased numbers of polymorphonuclear cells and increased lung myeloperoxidase activity), increased pro-inflammatory cytokines [e.g. TNF-α (tumour necrosis factor-α), IL (interleukin)-1β and IL-6], and increased cellular ischaemia (i.e. glutamate and lactate/pyruvate ratio) and oxidative damage [glycerol, NO x (combined nitrate + nitrite) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid] markers in the BALF (bronchoalveolar fluid). HHP, in addition to inducing overexpression of HSP70 in the lungs, significantly attenuated HAE-induced pulmonary oedema, inflammation, and ischaemic and oxidative damage in the lungs. The beneficial effects of HHP in preventing the occurrence of HAE-induced pulmonary oedema, inflammation, and ischaemic and oxidative damage was reduced significantly by pretreatment with a neutralizing anti-HSP70 antibody. In conclusion, HHP may attenuate the occurrence of pulmonary oedema, inflammation, and ischaemic and oxidative damage caused by HAE in part via up-regulating HSP70 in the lungs.
, the major brain noradrenergic nucleus, exacerbate the damage to nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) terminals caused by the psychostimulant methamphetamine (METH). However, because noradrenergic terminals contain other neuromodulators and the noradrenaline (NA) transporter, which may act as a neuroprotective buffer, it was unclear whether this enhancement of METH neurotoxicity was caused by the loss of noradrenergic innervation or the loss of NA itself. We addressed the specific role of NA by comparing the effects of METH in mice with noradrenergic lesions (DSP-4) and those with intact noradrenergic terminals but specifically lacking NA (genetic or acute pharmacological blockade of the NA biosynthetic enzyme dopamine β-hydroxylase; DBH). We found that genetic deletion of DBH (DBH −/− mice) and acute treatment of wild-type mice with a DBH inhibitor (fusaric acid) recapitulated the effects of DSP-4 lesions on METH responses. All three methods of NA depletion enhanced striatal DA release, extracellular oxidative stress (as measured by in vivo microdialysis of DA and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid), and behavioural stereotypies following repeated METH administration. These effects accompanied a worsening of the striatal DA neuron terminal damage and ultrastructural changes to medium spiny neurons. We conclude that NA itself is neuroprotective and plays a fundamental role in the sensitivity of striatal DA terminals to the neurochemical, behavioural, and neurotoxic effects of METH.
Phenotypic evaluation of isogenic mutants derived from Brucella abortus 2308 indicates that the AlcR homolog DhbR (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid [2,3-DHBA] biosynthesis regulator) modulates the expression of the genes involved in 2,3-DHBA production, employing 2,3-DHBA or brucebactin as a coinducer.
Abstract DFT calculations, at the B3LYP/TZVP level of theory for pyrocatechuic acid (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-DHBA), 2,3-dihydroxy-pyridine 2,3-DHPY and their ionized and oxidized forms, have been performed, in combination with experimental data. 1 H, 13 C, 2D COSY NMR, IR and electronic spectra were coupled to the theoretical calculations. The geometrical parameters were checked by reported crystallographic data. The neutral form of pyrocatechuic acid is the most stable, regarding its ionized (mono-, di- or tri-anions) and oxidized ([2,3-DHBA-sqH] − , [2,3-DHBA-sq] 2− , [2,3-DHBA-q] − ) species. The most stable conformer 2,3-DHBA-H 3 displays the COOH– group co-planar to the catechol ring, hydrogen bonded with OH(2). In the [2,3-DHBA-H 2 ] − the stable conformer shows the presence of protonated COOH, while OH(2) is ionized. The tri-anion is the form of 2,3-DHBA with the highest energy. Among the protonated semiquinone radical forms [2,3-DHBA-sqH] − , more stable is the OH(3)-oxidized, cited 21.3 kcal/mol lower in energy from the OH(2)-oxidized; in this latter the COO − group lies perpendicular to the benzene ring. The same calculation procedure fitted on the oxygenated [2,3-DHBA-H-O 2 ] 2− shows a weak π-bonding between O(2) and dioxygen, strongly H–bonded to OH(3), while the C(2)–O bond order increases. The different way of 2,3-DHBA oxidation parallels the different, from 3,4-isomer, degradation products. Our DFT calculations show that the keto/enol tautomeric forms of the neutral 2,3-DHPY-H 2 differ by 5.02 kcal/mol. Both species give, upon ionization, the [2,3-DHPY-H] − with the OH(2) deprotonated. The electronic density distribution of [2,3-DHPY-q] justifies further reactions (degradation or dienic addition) as experimentally observed.
Nonribosomal peptide synthetases are modular proteins that operate in an assembly line fashion to bind, modify, and link amino acids. In the E. coli enterobactin NRPS system, the EntE adenylation domain catalyzes the transfer of a molecule of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to the pantetheine cofactor of EntB. We present here the crystal structure of the EntB protein that contains an N-terminal isochorismate lyase domain that functions in the synthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate and a C-terminal carrier protein domain. Functional analysis showed that the EntB-EntE interaction was surprisingly tolerant of a number of point mutations on the surface of EntB and EntE. Mutational studies on EntE support our previous hypothesis that members of the adenylate-forming family of enzymes adopt two distinct conformations to catalyze the two-step reactions.
The aim of this study was to establish an ex vivo model for a faster optimisation of sample preparation procedures, for example matrix choice, in matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation (MALDI) drug imaging studies. The ionisation properties of four drugs, afatinib, erlotinib, irinotecan and pirfenidone, were determined in an ex vivo tissue experiment by spotting decreasing dilution series onto liver sections. Hereby, the drug signals were distinctly detectable using different matrix compounds, which allowed the selection of the optimal matrix for each drug. The analysis of afatinib and erlotinib yielded high drug signals with α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid matrix, whereas 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was identified as optimal matrix for irinotecan and pirfenidone detection. Our method was validated by a MALDI drug imaging approach of in vivo treated mouse tissue resulting in corresponding findings, indicating the spotting method as an appropriate approach to determine the matrix of choice. The present study shows the accordance between the detection of ex vivo spotted drugs and in vivo administered drugs by MALDI-TOF and MALDI-FT-ICR imaging, which has not been demonstrated so far. Our data suggest the ex vivo tissue spotting method as an easy and reliable model to optimise MALDI imaging measurements and to predict drug detection in tissue sections derived from treated mice prior to the recruitment of laboratory animals, which helps to save animals, time and costs.
The presence of endogenous cAMP was demonstrated in mycelial mats of Aspergillus ornatus Raper grown on cellulose xanthate membranes overlying a defined agar medium. Using a competitive binding assay cAMP was detected in 30 separate samples. Purification techniques increased the apparent cAMP concentration in excess of eight times the level observed in crude extracts. Cyclic AMP was only slightly detectable in extracts treated with phosphodiesterase. The concentration of endogenous cAMP as measured in purified extracts declined by approximately 60% in non-growing aging mycelial mats. Although there is an apparent age-related decline in endogenous cAMP levels and the activity of the tryptophan inducible enzyme, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid carboxylyase (EC 4.1.1.46), (OPCA carboxylyase), the addition of 10(-3) M cAMP and/or 0.1% tryptophan to the culture medium did not increase OPCA carboxylyase activity in the fungus.
Abstract Phenolic and nitrogenous compounds from different styles craft beers were identified by high performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry in order to stratify beer samples according to their style. For this, an exploratory assessment relying on Linear Discriminant Analysis was performed. Fifty-seven phenolic compounds were reported and twelve of them were found for the first time in beer: benzoic acids, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, dimethoxybenzoic acid; phenolic acid conjugates, 3-p-coumaroylquinic acid, 4-p-coumaroylquinic acid, 3-feruloylquinic acid, 4-feruloylquinic acid, 5-feruloylquinic acid; flavonoids, taxifolin hexoside, quercetin dihexoside, apigenin-6,8-dipentoside, and isofraxidin hexoside. Additionally, 11 nitrogenous compounds belonging to the phenolamide class were found. Two discriminant functions were generated and allowed a satisfactory separation among all beer styles. 3-Caffeoylquinic acid, 3-p-coumaroylquinic acid, 4-p-coumaroylquinic acid, 5-caffeoylquinic acid, coumaric acid, kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside, proanthocyanidin B dimer III and proanthocyanidin B dimer V were the compounds that showed the highest capacity of discriminate the beer styles (IPA, Lager and Weiss).
Abstract We investigated the in vivo hydroxyl radical (OH) generation in the striatum of mice following intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). This resulted in a time (1.5–6.5 h) and dose dependent (0–45 mg/kg) increase in the content of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), a reliable indicator of OH adduct of salicylate, as measured by HPLC and electrochemical detector. Severe depletion of dopamine (DA: 65%), glutathione (50%), and increase (170%) in catalase activity were observed by 7 days. The present study for the first time provides direct evidence for the generation of OH in brain following systemic administration of MPTP and suggests involvement of oxidative stress in the neurotoxic action of MPTP.
Nonribosomal peptide synthetases are modular proteins that operate in an assembly line fashion to bind, modify, and link amino acids. In the E. coli enterobactin NRPS system, the EntE adenylation domain catalyzes the transfer of a molecule of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to the pantetheine cofactor of EntB. We present here the crystal structure of the EntB protein that contains an N-terminal isochorismate lyase domain that functions in the synthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate and a C-terminal carrier protein domain. Functional analysis showed that the EntB-EntE interaction was surprisingly tolerant of a number of point mutations on the surface of EntB and EntE. Mutational studies on EntE support our previous hypothesis that members of the adenylate-forming family of enzymes adopt two distinct conformations to catalyze the twostep reactions.
E. coli contains a single NRPS system that is used in the synthesis of the siderophore enterobactin (Figure 1A) . The enterobactin molecule contains three copies of a dipeptide of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and serine [7] . The serine molecules form a trilactone ring between the carboxylate of one residue and the side chain hydroxyl of the next. Produced and secreted during iron-limiting conditions, the enterobactin molecule chelates an Fe 3+ ion and is then taken up into the cell through the activity of the outer membrane transport protein FepA [7] .
Background: The purpose of the present study was to determine whether magnolol, a free radical scavenger, mitigates the deleterious effects of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Material and methods: Traumatic brain injuries were induced in anesthetized male SpragueDawley rats using fluid percussion, and the rats were divided into groups treated with magnolol (2 mg/kg, intravenously) or vehicle. A group of rats that did not undergo TBI induction was also studied as controls. Biomarkers of TBI, including glycerol and 2,3dihydroxybenzoic acid, were evaluated by microdialysis. Infraction volume, extent of neuronal apoptosis, and antiapoptosis factor transforming growth factor b1 (TGF-b1) were also measured. Functional outcomes were assessed by motor assays. Results: Compared with the rats without TBI, the animals with TBI exhibited higher hippocampal glycerol and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Relative to the vehicle-treated group, the magnolol-treated group showed decreased hippocampal levels of glycerol and hydroxyl radical levels. The magnolol-treated rats also exhibited decreased cerebral infarction volume and neuronal apoptosis and increased antiapoptosis-associated factor TGF-b1 expression. These effects were translated into improved motor function post TBI. Conclusions: Our results suggest that intravenous magnolol injection mitigates the deleterious effects of TBI in rats based on its potent free radical scavenging capability, and the mechanism of antieneuronal apoptosis is partly due to an increase in TGF-b1 expression in the ischemic cortex.
Mutants of Escherichia coli K-12 that are unable to make use of the enterochelin transport system were used to confirm that streptonigrin requires iron for its bactericidal action. Correlation of viability studies and /sup 55/Fe/sup 3 +/ uptake experiments showed that killing by streptonigrin increased with an increase in /sup 55/Fe/sup 3 +/ uptake by the cells. Fetreptonigrin did not kill iron-starved mutants that were unable to import iron. The level of iron uptake by these mutants was manipulated by agents such as the enterochelin biosynthetic precursors 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2 x 10(-5) M) and shikimic acid (2 x 10(-4) M), citrate (10(-2) M), which promotes iron uptake by an independent pathway, and the chelating agents desferrioxamine (2 x 10(-4) M) and orthophenanthroline (10(-4) M). Addition of the precursors shikimate and dihydroxybenzoate to strain AB2847 (aroB) and dihydroxybenzoate to strain AN193 (entA), allowing these strains to make enterochelin, resulted in an increase in Fe/sup 3 +/ uptake and a corresponding sharp increase in killing by streptonigrin. Addition of enterochelin itself (10(-6) M) caused an even more pronounced effect. Studies on the effect of citrate in strain AN102 (fep) showed that this mutant was not killed by streptonigrin (4 x 10(-5) M),more » even in the presence of citrate; however, overnight growth in citrate induced Fe/sup 3 +/ uptake by means of the ferric citrate transport system and resulted in killing by streptonigrin. These studies showed a clear correlation between the change in levels of intracellular iron and the bactericidal effectiveness of streptonigrin.« less
A variety of strategies is applied to alleviate thermodynamic and kinetic limitations in biocatalytic carboxylation of metabolites in vivo. A key feature to consider in enzymatic carboxylations is the nature of the cosubstrate: CO2 or its hydrated form, bicarbonate. The substrate binding and activation mechanism determine what the actual carboxylation agent is. Dihydroxybenzoic acid (de)carboxylases catalyze the reversible regio-selective ortho-(de)carboxylation of phenolics. These enzymes have attracted considerable attention in the last 10 years due to their potential in substituting harsh conditions typical of chemical carboxylations (100-200 °C, 5-100 bar) with, ideally, greener ones (20-40 °C, 1 bar). They are reported to use bicarbonate as substrate, needed in large excess to overcome thermodynamic and kinetic limitations. Therefore, CO2 can be used as substrate by these enzymes only if it is converted into bicarbonate in situ. In this contribution, we report the simultaneous amine-mediated conversion of CO2 into bicarbonate and the ortho-carboxylation of different phenolic molecules catalyzed by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (de)carboxylase from Aspergillus oryzae. Our results show that under the newly developed conditions a significant thermodynamic (up to twofold increase in conversion) and kinetic improvement (up to approx. fivefold increase in rate) of the biocatalytic carboxylation of catechol is achieved.
In order to study the reaction of molybdenum(VI) with dihydroxybenzoic acids (DHBAs), compounds (PPh 4 ) 2 · [Mo 4 O 6 (μ-O) 4 (μ 3 -OCH 3 ) 2 (2,3-DHBA) 2 ] ( 1 ) and (PPh 4 ) 2 · [Mo 3 O 6 (μ-O) 2 (2,5-DHBA) 2 ] · CH 3 CN ( 2 ) were isolated and determined by X-ray crystallography. The structure of complex 1 consists of four distorted MoO 6 octahedra with two cis - MoO 2 2 + units and two molybdenum atoms having each ligand coordinated and one terminal oxygen atom, while two triple bridged methanol molecules are present. The ligand 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) prefers the catecholate-type coordination with strong hydrogen bonding between the carboxylic hydrogen and the ortho -phenolic oxygen. The structure of complex 2 consists of three distorted MoO 6 octahedra. The 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) acts as a tridentate ligand using both carboxyl oxygen atoms, giving thus an unusual trinuclear molybdenum complex with a unique coordination mode of the ligand. The compounds were further investigated using IR, UV–Vis, ESR and NMR spectroscopy, elemental and thermogravimetric analysis, as well as cyclic voltammetry.
Dechloro-chlorocatechelin A (3), a deschloro-derivative of a microbial siderophore chlorocatechelin A (2), was synthesized from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, D-arginine, and 1-benzyl D-glutamate. The ...
Formation of the enzymes synthesizing 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) in Bacillus subtilis is repressed by iron. DHB does not appear to be involved in regulating its own biosynthesis. Hemin may be involved in regulating DHB synthesis. DHB synthetase is inhibited by several m-substituted benzoic acids. The inhibitors do not affect the growth rate of B. subtilis and DHB appears not to be necessary for growth under the conditions used. Inhibition of DHB synthesis during growth under iron-deficient conditions reduces the iron uptake capacity of B. subtilis.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can be generated in experimental shock states through several different mechanisms. We measured ROS production in metabolically active liver mitochondria from rats rendered septic by cecal ligation and puncture. By polarography, the State 4 and State 3 respiration rates of liver mitochondria isolated from septic animals were no different from control organelles. During oxidation of succinate, however, nonenzymatic hydroxylation of salicylic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by mitochondria from septic rats was increased, indicating generation of hydroxyl radical (OH.). Inhibition of electron transport at Complex I with rotenone had no effect on this pattern of OH. production, but rotenone and cyanide abolished the differences in OH. formation between control and septic liver mitochondria. Measurements of H2O2 release suggested that septic mitochondria will increase rates of H2O2 production in the presence of succinate. Additional investigations revealed no difference in the release of iron between septic and control mitochondria. When referenced to respiration rate, both OH. and H2O2 production were greater in septic liver mitochondria. The reproducible effect of sepsis on generation of reactive oxygen species by liver mitochondria utilizing FAD-linked but not NAD-linked substrates suggests that enhanced mitochondrial oxidative stress in sepsis is related to alterations in the activity of Complex II of the electron transport chain.
Abstract Fenton reaction is thought to play an important role in wood degradation by brown-rot fungi. In this context, the effect of oxalic acid and pH on iron reduction by a biomimetic fungal chelator and on the adsorption/desorption of iron to/from wood was investigated. The results presented in this work indicate that at pH 2.0 and 4.5 and in the presence of oxalic acid, the phenolate chelator 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) is capable of reducing ferric iron only when the iron is complexed with oxalate to form Fe 3+ -mono-oxalate (Fe(C 2 O 4 ) + ). Within the pH range tested in this work, this complex formation occurs when the oxalate:Fe 3+ molar ratio is less than 20 (pH 2.0) or less than 10 (pH 4.5). When aqueous ferric iron was passed through a column packed with milled red spruce ( Picea rubens ) wood equilibrated at pH 2.0 and 4.5, it was observed that ferric iron binds to wood at pH 4.5 but not at pH 2.0, and the bound iron could then be released by application of oxalic acid at pH 4.5. The release of bound iron was dependent on the amount of oxalic acid applied in the column. When the amount of oxalate was at least 20-fold greater than the amount of iron bound to the wood, all bound iron was released. When Fe–oxalate complexes were applied to the milled wood column equilibrated in the pH range of 2–4.5, iron from Fe–oxalate complexes was bound to the wood only when the pH was 3.6 or higher and the oxalate:Fe 3+ molar ratio was less than 10. When 2,3-DHBA was evaluated for its ability to release iron bound to the milled wood, it was found that 2,3-DHBA possessed a greater affinity for ferric iron than the wood as 2,3-DHBA was capable of releasing the ferric iron bound to the wood in the pH range 3.6–5.5. These results further the understanding of the mechanisms employed by brown-rot fungi in wood biodegradation processes.
SUMMARY: After growth of representatives of eight genera in the order Actinomycetales and two others related taxonomically to Mycobacterium under iron-deficient conditions, the following compounds were found in the media: salicylic and phenylacetic acids, but no mycobactin, with Thermoactinomyces vulgaris; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with Corynebacterium equi, Mycococcus sp., Nocardia opaca and Streptosporangium rubrum; a conjugate of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were also found with S. rubrum. Unidentified compounds giving a positive reaction to FeCl3 were found after growth of Dactylosporangium thailandensis and Propionibacterium shermanii. No iron-binding compounds were detected with Actinoplanes phillippinensis, Micromonospora sp. and Streptomyces albus.
Aeromonas hydrophila 495A2 excreted two forms of amonabactin, a new phenolate siderophore composed of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, lysine, glycine, and either tryptophan (amonabactin T) or phenylalanine (amonabactin P). Supplementing cultures with L-tryptophan (0.3 mM) caused exclusive synthesis of amonabactin T, whereas supplements of L-phenylalanine (0.3 to 30 mM) gave predominant production of amonabactin P. The two forms of amonabactin were separately purified by a combination of production and polyamide column chromatographic methods. Both forms were biologically active, stimulating growth in iron-deficient medium of an amonabactin-negative mutant. Of 43 additional siderophore-producing isolates of the Aeromonas species that were tested, 76% (19 of 25) of the A. hydrophila isolates were amonabactin positive, whereas only 19% (3 of 16) of the A. sobria isolates and all (3 of 3) of the A. caviae isolates produced amonabactin, suggesting a predominant synthesis of amonabactin in certain Aeromonas species.
One mechanism by which Listeria monocytogenes is thought to obtain iron required for growth is through the extracellular reduction of a ferric iron source to the ferrous form. To better characterize this reductase activity we have developed a simple plate assay that allows detection of colonies of Listeria species able to reduce ferric iron. Cells are plated on an agar base medium containing a ferric iron source and ethylenediamine dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Colonies are then overlain with soft agarose containing NADH, flavin mononucleotide, and Ferrozine, a chelator of ferrous iron. Colonies able to reduce the ferric iron source form a red-purple color as the ferrous iron is complexed with ferrozine. Using this qualitative assay we have shown that all species of Listeria are able to reduce ferric iron when presented as ferric ammonium citrate whereas most other species of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria are not. Only Clostridium perfringens was able to reduce ferric iron to the same extent as Listeria. Listeria monocytogenes was further shown to be capable of reducing various ferric iron salts as well as iron bound to ferritin, transferrin, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the agar plate assay. The utility of this assay was demonstrated by using it to screen a bank of Tn916-derived mutants of L. monocytogenes for clones unable to reduce ferric iron. Four such mutants were identified and all were shown to have greatly decreased ferric reductase activity.
The modification of gold (Au) electrode using zirconium dioxide nanoparticles (ZrO2 NPs) has been investigated for enhanced electrochemical (EC) detection in flow-based analytical systems. The average size of ZrO2 NPs deposited in a facile procedure on the Au electrode surface was calculated as 22.5 ± 7 nm. Redox behaviour of a test solute, ferrocyanide [Fe(CN)6]4-, on the bare- and ZrO2-Au electrodes was initially investigated using cyclic voltammetry. From the voltammograms of bare- and ZrO2-Au electrodes, the EC reversibility values and effective surface area were experimentally determined for the first-time in this study. Further, EC reversibility and 100% increase in effective electrode surface area were confirmed in ZrO2-Au electrode through investigating the detection response (current). The EC performance of the ZrO2-Au electrode was then investigated in amperometric detection of selected electroactive solutes separated by reversed-phase HPLC. The limits of detection (LODs), based upon an injection volume of 10 μL for ascorbic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and pyrocatechol were 0.09 μM, 0.04 μM, and 0.10 μM, respectively (RSD 2.5%, n = 9, r2 = 0.99 for concentration range 1-100 μM). These LODs for the ZrO2-Au electrode were 2-times lower for 2,3-DHBA, and pyrocatechol than the lowest LODs reported in the literature for EC detection in HPLC. The ZrO2-Au electrode demonstrated satisfactory repeatability of preparation, detection reproducibility and high stability (8.5 h) during continuous-flow in FIA and 45 days during intermittent use with HPLC, at flow rate of 0.6 mL min-1. This work has demonstrated a comprehensive EC characterisation of Au electrode with nanoparticulate ZrO2 for flow-based analytical systems.
After growth of representatives of eight genera in the order Actinomycetales and two others related taxonomically to Mycobacterium under iron-deficient conditions, the following compounds were found in the media : salicylic and phenylacetic acids, but no mycobactin, with Thermoactinomyces vulgaris; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with Corynebacterium equi, Mycococcus sp., Nocardia opaca and Streptosporangium rubrum ; a conjugate of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were also found with S. rubrum. Unidentified compounds giving a positive reaction to FeCl, were found after growth of Dactylosporangium thailandensis and Propionibacterium shermanii. No iron-binding compounds were detected with Actinoplanes phillippinensis, Micromonospora sp. and Streptomyces albus.
Aeromonas hydrophila 495A2 excreted two forms of amonabactin, a new phenolate siderophore composed of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, lysine, glycine, and either tryptophan (amonabactin T) or phenylalanine (amonabactin P). Supplementing cultures with L-tryptophan (0.3 mM) caused exclusive synthesis of amonabactin T, whereas supplements of L-phenylalanine (0.3 to 30 mM) gave predominant production of amonabactin P. The two forms of amonabactin were separately purified by a combination of production and polyamide column chromatographic methods. Both forms were biologically active, stimulating growth in iron-deficient medium of an amonabactin-negative mutant. Of 43 additional siderophore-producing isolates of the Aeromonas species that were tested, 76% (19 of 25) of the A. hydrophila isolates were amonabactin positive, whereas only 19% (3 of 16) of the A. sobria isolates and all (3 of 3) of the A. caviae isolates produced amonabactin, suggesting a predominant synthesis of amonabactin in certain Aeromonas species.
Abstract Electrochemical oxidation of naphthazarin (5,8-dihydroxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, 1 ), 2,5-dihydroxy- benzoic acid ( 2 ), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids ( 3 ) and hydroquinone ( 4 ) have been studied in the presence of dimedone ( 5 ) as a nucleophile using cyclic voltammetry (CV). The results indicate that the quinones derived from 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 participate separately with 5 in the 1,4-Michael addition reactions to form the corresponding new benzofuran derivatives. The electrochemical synthesis was carried out in the H 2 O/CH 3 CN solution mixture using constant current technique to give the pure benzofuran derivatives in high yield.
In iron deficient environment, bacteria meet their iron requirement by producing low-molecular-mass iron-chelating compounds called siderophores. The compounds bind available Fe 3? with high affinity to form complexes which are internalized by the cells with the help of cognate membrane proteins. The structures of these compounds are quite variable. Many of them are catecholate in nature. Catecholate siderophores were isolated from a variety of bacterial species including Escherichia coli which produces enterobactin, the prototype of catecholate siderophore. Enterobactin is biosynthesized from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) which, in turn is synthesized from chorismate via the consecutive actions of three enzymes, viz., isochorismate synthase (EntC), isochorismatase (EntB) and 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate dehydrogenase (EntA) (Earhart 1996) . Although, the enzymes involved in the pathway of DHBA biosynthesis are common to all catechol siderophore-producing organisms, the organization of the biosynthetic genes within the operon and the sequences of the genes are different.
A fast-growing Rhizobium strain BICC 651 was isolated from a nodule produced on root of a chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) plant grown in the Experimental Farm of Bose Institute at Madhyamgram, West Bengal, India. The strain produced a catechol siderophore and its cognate membrane receptor in response to iron deficiency (Roy et al. 1994) . Structurally, the siderophore produced by Rhizobium BICC 651 contains 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid as core compound with two moles of threonine as the ligand. This suggested that the strain BICC 651 is likely to possess enzymes for siderophore biosynthesis similar to those of other catechol siderophore-producing organisms and the biosynthetic mechanism of the siderophore could be similar to that in other catechol siderophore-producing organisms. In the present study, transposon Tn5-mob insertional mutagenesis of the Rhizobium strain BICC 651 was performed to generate mutants impaired in siderophore production. One of the mutants was exploited to find out siderophore biosynthetic genes of the Rhizobium strain BICC 651.
Iron is a required element for bacterial survival and growth. Under aerobic conditions, however, iron is present only in insoluble mineral complexes or bound to a mammalian host's own iron-binding proteins (11, 12) . Vibrio cholerae, like many pathogenic bacteria, produces a siderophore-a low-molecular-weight iron chelator-which effectively competes with human iron-binding proteins, such as lactoferrin and transferrin (12, 35). The V. cholerae siderophore vibriobactin belongs to the group of catechol siderophores, of which enterobactin, a cyclic trimer of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-L-serine produced by Escherichia coli, is the prototype (35). Vibriobactin contains three residues of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and two residues of threonine, which are in the form of oxazoline rings (21). The polyamine backbone of vibriobactin is unusual in being the rare compound norspermidine [N-(-aminopropyl)-1,3-diaminopropane] rather than spermidine, which is found in the Paracoccus denitrificans siderophore parabactin and the Agrobacterium tumefaciens siderophore agrobactin (21). The biosynthetic steps needed for vibriobactin production are not yet clearly defined.
Chemical and electrochemical oxidation of different catechols were carried out in the presence of N,N′-dibenzylethylenediamine (DBEDA) in a phosphate buffer/acetonitrile solution for the synthesis of different new dibenzyltetrahydroquinoxalinedione derivatives. The oxidation of catechol (1a), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1e), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1d) led to the same product, probably due to the decarboxylation reaction of intermediates. An oxidative decarboxylation reaction of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1d) has been reported before, while an unexpected oxidative decarboxylation reaction of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1e) in the presence of DBEDA is reported for the first time.
A new high-throughput liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for the quantification of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2, 3-DHBA) and 2,5- dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) i n rat plasma was developed and validated. The separation was performed on a Luna HILIC column under isocrati c conditions using a 94:6 (v/v) mixture of acetonitri le and 50 mM ammonium acetate in water (pH 4,5) at 15oC with a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min. The detection was p erformed in MRM mode using an ion trap mass spectro meter with electrospray negative ionization. The ion tran sition monitored was m/z 153 → m/z (109) for both analytes. The rat plasma samples were precipitated using acet onitrile and aliquots from supernatants obtained af ter centrifugation were directly injected into the chromato graphic system. The method showed a good linearity (r > 0.998), precision and accuracy (< 9.1%) over the co ncentration ranges of 20 - 2420 ng/mL for both anal ytes. The recoveries were between 85.7% ‐ 103.0%. The met hod is not expensive, it needs a minimal time for p lasma sample preparation and has a run-time of 4 min for instrument analysis (retention times were of 1.5 mi n for 2,3DHBA, and of 2.0 min for 2,5-DHBA, respectively). T he developed and validated LC-MS/MS method is very simple and more time-saving compared to other simil ar published methods. It was used in a toxicologica l assay for the study of the in vivo hydroxyl radical gener ation in rat after exposure to some xenobiotics and oxidative stress generation.
Abstract Tyrosinase can catalyze the oxidation of o -diphenols to o -quinones. In this paper, some o -diphenols were used as mushroom tyrosinase substrates to study the catalyzed specificity of the enzyme. The enzyme kinetic analysis of substrate specificities and the substrate analogues towards mushroom tyrosinase has been investigated. Taking l -3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine ( I ), 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid ( II ), 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid ( III ) and 1,2,4-benzenetriol ( IV ) as substrates, the results of specificity studies showed that the oxidation reaction of tested o -diphenols by mushroom tyrosinase followed Michaelis–Menten kinetics. The Michaelis–Menten constants for these four substrates were determined to be 0.615, 1.238, 0.331 and 1.886 mM, respectively. The values of V m / K m , which denotes the affinity of the enzyme to the substrate, were determined and compared, and the results showed that the affinity of the enzyme to these substrates followed the order: compound IV > III > I > II . Furthermore, mushroom tyrosinase cannot catalyze the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzonitrile ( a ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde ( b ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( c ) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( d ). On the contrary, compounds a , b and c can inhibit the activity of tyrosinase for the oxidation of DOPA, while compound d had no effects on enzyme activity. The results show that compounds a and b are reversible non-competitive inhibitors.
Boron-doped diamond( BDD) film electrodes were deposited on Si substrates by direct current plasma chemical vapor deposition( DC-PCVD) system with CH4,H2 and B( OCH3)3as source gas. Salicylic acid( SA)was used as a trap of hydroxyl radicals to investigate the rule and mechanism of hydroxyl radicals produced by electrolysis with BDD electrode. It was found that the hydroxylated product of SA reaction with ·OH was 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid( 2,5-DHBA),instead of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid( 2,3-DHBA). The optimum test condition for · OH detection in BDD electrode system was 7 mmol / L SA initial concentration with 30 min reaction time under 10 m A / cm2 current density. The production rate of · OH was 5. 789( mol /( L · min)at 10 m A / cm2.
AIM ::: To assess the therapeutic effect of melatonin on heat-induced acute lung inflammation and injury in rats. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Heatstroke was induced by exposing anesthetized rats to heat stress (36 °C, 100 min). Rats were treated with vehicle or melatonin (0.2, 1, 5 mg/kg) by intravenous administration 100 min after the initiatioin of heatstroke and were allowed to recover at room temperature (26 °C). The acute lung injury was quantified by morphological examination and by determination of the volume of pleural exudates, the number of polymorphonuclear (PMN) cells, and the myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. The concentrations of tumor necrosis factor, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and IL-10 in bronchoalveolar fluid (BALF) were measured by ELISA. Nitric oxide (NO) level was determined by Griess method. The levels of glutamate and lactate-to-pyruvate ratio were analyzed by CMA600 microdialysis analyzer. The concentrations of hydroxyl radicals were measured by a procedure based on the hydroxylation of sodium salicylates leading to the production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Melatonin (1 and 5 mg/kg) significantly (i) prolonged the survival time of heartstroke rats (117 and 186 min vs 59 min); (ii) attenuated heatstroke-induced hyperthermia and hypotension; (iii) attenuated acute lung injury, including edema, neutrophil infiltration, and hemorrhage scores; (iv) down-regulated exudate volume, BALF PMN cell number, and MPO activity; (v) decreased the BALF levels of lung inflammation response cytokines like TNF-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 but further increased the level of an anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10; (vi) reduced BALF levels of glutamate, lactate-to-pyruvate ratio, NO, 2,3-DHBA, and lactate dehydrogenase. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Melatonin may improve the outcome of heatstroke in rats by attenuating acute lung inflammation and injury.
Abstract OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to investigate the follicular fluid parameters associated with redox activity and the consequent production of the deleterious hydroxyl radical in β-thalassemia major. STUDY DESIGN: The levels of ferritin, total iron, total copper, and redox-active iron were measured in follicular fluid aspirated from three follicles during three consecutive ovum pickups from a patient with β-thalassemia major and were compared with the levels in nine follicles aspirates from nine healthy control patients. The redox activity in the follicular fluid samples was monitored by the extent of follicular fluid - mediated deoxyribonucleic acid degradation and salicylate hydroxylation. RESULTS: Total iron and ferritin concentrations were elevated in thalassemic follicular fluid samples compared with control samples (6.7-fold and 53.3-fold, respectively), whereas the total copper concentration was similar. Thalassemic follicular fluid samples exhibited a marked increase of redox activity, indicating a higher potential of free radical production leading to deoxyribonucleic acid degradation. Likewise, free radical - induced conversion of salicylate to dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives was enhanced in the thalassemic follicular fluid samples compared with controls (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid: 67.7 ± 22 vs 20.3 ± 12.9 ng/mg protein; 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid: 101.6 ± 25.9 vs 4.42 ± 2.7 ng/mg protein). CONCLUSIONS: The increased level of redox activity found in the follicular fluid from a patient with β-thalassemia major focuses the attention on the small fraction of redox-active iron ions as mediators of free radical production, inducing tissue injury and possibly contributing to impairment of reproduction in these patients. (AM J OBSTET GYNECOL 1996;174:914-8.)
The photochemical hydroxylation of salicylic acid (SA) by hydrogen peroxide proceeds via the same intermediate independently of the excited reactant (i.e. SA or H 2 O 2 ). This conclusion is supported by the similar effect of pH on the quantum yields and on the isomer ratio of formed products: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHB). The product ratio ([2,3-DHB]/[2,5-DHB]) is not affected by H 2 O 2 concentration.
In order to understand the mechanism of decarboxylation by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase, chemical modification studies were carried out. Specific modification of the amino acid residues with diethylpyrocarbonate, N-bromosuccinimide and N-ethylmaleiimide revealed that at least one residue each of histidine, tryptophan and cysteine were essential for the activity. Various substrate analogs which were potential inhibitors significantly protected the enzyme against inactivation. The modification of residues at low concentration of the reagents and the protection experiments suggested that these amino acid residues might be present at the active site. Studies also suggested that the carboxyl and ortho-hydroxyl groups of the substrate are essential for interaction with the enzyme.
Threshold collision-induced dissociation of K+(xBA) complexes with xenon is studied using guided ion beam mass spectrometry. The xBA ligands studied include benzoic acid and all of the mono- and dihydroxy-substituted benzoic acids: 2-, 3-, and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid and 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, 3,4-, and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. In all cases, the primary product corresponds to endothermic loss of the intact xBA ligand. The cross section thresholds are interpreted to yield 0 and 298 K bond dissociation energies (BDEs) for K+-xBA after accounting for the effects of multiple ion-neutral collisions, the kinetic and internal energy distributions of the reactants, and dissociation lifetimes. Density functional theory calculations at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory are used to determine the structures of the xBA ligands and their complexes with K+. Theoretical BDEs are determined from single-point energy calculations at the B3LYP/6-311+G(2d,2p) and MP2(full)/6-311+G(2d,2p) levels using B3LYP/6-31G* optimized geometries. Four favorable binding modes for the K+(xBA) complexes are found. In all complexes to an xBA ligand that does not have a 2-hydroxyl substituent, the most favorable binding mode corresponds to a single interaction with the carbonyl oxygen atom. Formation of a 4-membered ring via chelation interactions with both oxygen atoms of the carboxylic acid group is found to be the most favorable binding mode for all of the 2-hydroxy-substituted systems except K+(2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid). In these complexes, a hydrogen-bonding interaction between the hydrogen atom of the carboxylic acid moiety and the oxygen atom of the 2-hydroxy substituent provides additional stabilization. Formation of a 5-membered chelation ring via interaction of K+ with the oxygen atoms of adjacent hydroxyl substituents is also favorable and corresponds to the ground-state geometry for the K+(23DHBA) complex. Formation of a 6-membered chelation ring via interaction of K+ with the carbonyl and 2-hydroxyl oxygen atoms is also quite favorable but does not correspond to the ground-state geometry for any of the systems examined here. The experimental BDEs determined here are in very good agreement with the calculated values.
Mitochondria are known to contain a P-450 like system similar to that found in microsomes. Since previous in vivo studies from this laboratory have suggested that renal mitochondria may metabolize salicylate (SAL) to a reactive intermediate capable of protein binding, the ability of isolated kidney and liver mitochondria to activate salicylate was investigated. Renal mitochondria were 4 times more active than liver in converting SAL to a reactive intermediate and metabolized approx. 1% of the SAL to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the catechol analogue of SAL. The formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate (2,3-DHBA) and the amount of radiolabel bound to mitochondrial protein was decreased in the presence of SKF 525-A; however, excess unlabeled metabolite had no effect on binding. These data indicate that kidney mitochondria activate SAL via a cytochrome P-450 like system, but suggest that the binding species is not 2,3-DHBA itself. Oxidation of SAL and covalent binding of radiolabel, however, were also observed after the addition of ferrous iron and ascorbic acid to a model system containing [14C]SAL and bovine serum albumin. Mannitol decreased SAL oxidation and covalent binding, suggesting radical formation may represent a non-enzymatic mechanism for SAL activation.
Aim: To assess the therapeutic effect of melatonin on heat-induced acute lung inflammation and injury in rats. Methods: Heatstroke was induced by exposing anesthetized rats to heat stress (36 °C, 100 min). Rats were treated with vehicle or melatonin (0.2, 1, 5 mg/kg) by intravenous administration 100 min after the initiatioin of heatstroke and were allowed to recover at room temperature (26 °C). The acute lung injury was quantified by morphological examination and by determination of the volume of pleural exudates, the number of polymorphonuclear (PMN) cells, and the myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. The concentrations of tumor necrosis factor, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and IL-10 in bronchoalveolar fluid (BALF) were measured by ELISA. Nitric oxide (NO) level was determined by Griess method. The levels of glutamate and lactate-to-pyruvate ratio were analyzed by CMA600 microdialysis analyzer. The concentrations of hydroxyl radicals were measured by a procedure based on the hydroxylation of sodium salicylates leading to the production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Results: Melatonin (1 and 5 mg/kg ) significantly (i) prolonged the survival time of heartstroke rats (117 and 186 min vs 59 min); (ii) attenuated heatstroke-induced hyperthermia and hypotension; (iii) attenuated acute lung injury, including edema, neutrophil infiltration, and hemorrhage scores; (iv) down-regulated exudate volume, BALF PMN cell number, and MPO activity; (v) decreased the BALF levels of lung inflammation response cytokines like TNF-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6 but further increased the level of an antiinflammatory cytokine IL-10; (vi) reduced BALF levels of glutamate, lactate-to-pyruvate ratio, NO, 2,3-DHBA, and lactate dehydrogenase. Conclusion: Melatonin may improve the outcome of heatstroke in rats by attenuating acute lung inflammation and injury.
The present study evaluated hydroxyl radical production in fetal lamb brain during and after umbilical cord occlusion and examined the effects of injecting MCI-186 (3-metyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one; Edaravone), a hydroxyl radical scavenger, into the maternal circulation. In 11 chronically instrumented lambs, intermittent total umbilical cord occlusions 1 min out of every 3 min for 1 h and 10-min persistent total umbilical cord occlusion were performed with brain microdialysis using 5 mM of sodium salicylate. In the remaining four lambs, 60 mg of MCI-186 was administered into the maternal circulation from shortly before the end of 10-min persistent total umbilical cord occlusion. Concentrations of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), produced by hydroxyl radical reactions with sodium salicylate, were measured in perfusate by HPLC. Concentration of 2,3-DHBA in perfusate was 23.05 Ϯ 10.95 nM before umbilical cord occlusion. Levels of 2,3-DHBA tended to increase slightly during and after intermittent umbilical cord occlusion, and were significantly increased by the end of 10-min occlusion ( 
In addition, B. subtilis synthesizes its own siderophore, bacillibactin (BB) (DhbACEBF), and a cognate uptake system (FeuABC-YusV), both of which are under Fur regulation (5, 7, 8) . A phosphopantetheinyl transferase (encoded by sfp) is also required for BB biosynthesis (9, 10) . Most laboratory strains of B. subtilis [those derived from the legacy strain B. subtilis 168 (11) ] carry an sfp null mutation (sfp 0 ) (9, 10) and can only produce the BB precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and its glycine conjugate (DHBG) [collectively assigned as DHB(G)]. The DHB(G) compounds bind to Fe 3+ with modest affinity, while BB binds to Fe 3+ with very high affinity (7, 12) . BB uptake shares the same pathway as enterobactin (FeuABC-YusV) (8) and is under two levels of regulation: iron-dependent repression by Fur and substrate-specific activation by Btr (bacillibactin transport regulator), an AraC family transcriptional activator (13, 14) . In addition to its prototypic role as an Fe
The scope of this work was to evaluate the photocatalytic degradation of salicylic acid (SA) using the anatase TiO2 thin film (hereafter: ATF) under UV-A irradiation and to explore the tentative long-term activity of ATF. The ATF was immobilized by the sol–gel procedure on the inner side of outer wall of annular glass reactor for maximized exposure area to applied irradiation. The ATF was used for 41 consecutive photocatalytic runs (trun = 60 min) and then irradiated under natural sunlight over a period of 15 days. Photocatalytic runs were repeated with irradiated catalyst, showing the unchanged photocatalytic activity with observed reaction rate constant k SA,obs = 4.0 × 10−7 min−1 W−0.5 m1.5. The degradation and mineralization kinetics of SA and the degradation by-products were studied. A tentative reaction scheme was presented. 2,5-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) were identified as the main degradation by-products. The incident photon flux was determined along the inner reactor wall, i.e. on the thin film surface (I tf, W m−2) using two radiation emission models. To obtain kinetic parameters independently of photocatalyst optical properties and irradiation conditions, its lump value was introduced to kinetic model. A detailed kinetic study revealed first-order kinetics for SA, 2,5-DHBA, 2,3-DHBA and residual organics degradation and confirmed the preferred degradation pathway via ·OH radical attack.
In the present study, the role of the phenolic compounds and the pollen grains as differential diagnosis of Senna senna plants grow in the valleys and on the mountains of Makkah Al-Mukarramah was demonstrated. Since Senna is a member of the anthracene group of purgatives, its active principles being derivatives of anthraquinone, the present work aimed to investigating its phenolic compounds that have medicinal significance. Flavonoids were classified according to their chemical structure to three groups: O-Flavonols included Quercetin, Rutin (Quercetin-3-rutinoside), Isoquercitrin (Quercetin-3-glucoside), Quercetrin (Quercetin-3-rhamnoside) and Kaempfherol. O-Flavones were represented by Apigenin. It was accompanied by its C-Flavone, Vitexin. Both hydrolysable and condensed tannins were detected. Three phenolic acids were detected. 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and Gentisic acid (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid). Phloroglucinol, (-)-Epicatechin and (+)-Catechin; the precursor of condensed tannins and the flavan desivative were also detected. Generally the pollen grains of the studied taxa of the genus Senna growing in the vallyes and on the mountains of Makkah Al-Mukarramah are radically symmetrical, isopolar, tricolporate and triangular trilobed with fossulate sculpture. The chemotaxonomical and palynological studies of the studied taxa of the genus Senna are not inagreement except for the flowers. Therefore further details of the flavonoid constituents and their distribution especially of those which are less wide spread, are to be studied because as understanding of their chemical properties will be helpful in the interpretation of their chemotaxonomical properties of Senna senna plants.
Male Wistar rats (15 weeks old), the ankle joints of one hindlimb of which were immobilized in the extended position for 12 days, were injected with salicylate as a trapping agent for hydroxyl radicals before sacrifice. Atrophied and contralateral soleus, typical slow red muscles were collected and their levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), one of the main reaction products formed by the attack of hydroxyl radical on salicylate, were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography with an electrochemical detector. There was a significant increase in 2,3-DHB in the atrophied muscle. This result strongly suggests the enhanced generation in vivo of hydroxyl radicals in atrophied muscle.
It has been reported that the dihydroxybenzene (DHB) driven Fenton reaction is more efficient to degrade recalcitrant substrates than the simple Fenton reaction. The enhanced reactivity of the DHB driven Fenton reaction is not clear, but it could be explained by the formation of oxidant species different from the ones formed by classical Fenton reaction or by the shift of the redox potential of the complex formed by DHB and Fe(III). The redox reaction between Fe(III) and the DHBs 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (catechol, CAT), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), and 1,2-dihydroxy-3,5-benzenedisulfonate (TIRON) was studied by cyclic voltammetry to better understand the enhanced reactivity of the DHB driven Fenton reaction. It was determined that the amount of Fe(II) produced by the redox reaction between Fe(III) and DHBs was insufficient to explain the enhanced reactivity. Cyclic voltammograms (CV) of the DHBs/Fe(III) systems show a quasi-reversible or irreversible behavior and also shifting and splitting the anodic peaks. This effect can be related to DHBs oxidation by Fe(III), but not to a real interaction.
Lipocalin-2 (Lcn2), a critical component of the innate immune response which binds siderophores and limits bacterial iron acquisition, can elicit spillover adverse proinflammatory effects. Here we show that holo-Lcn2 (Lcn2-siderophore-iron, 1:3:1) increases mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and attenuates mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation in adult rat primary cardiomyocytes in a manner blocked by N-acetyl-cysteine or the mitochondria-specific antioxidant SkQ1. We further demonstrate using siderophores 2,3-DHBA (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and 2,5-DHBA that increased ROS and reduction in oxidative phosphorylation are direct effects of the siderophore component of holo-Lcn2 and not due to apo-Lcn2 alone. Extracellular apo-Lcn2 enhanced the potency of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA to increase ROS production and decrease mitochondrial respiratory capacity, whereas intracellular apo-Lcn2 attenuated these effects. These actions of holo-Lcn2 required an intact plasma membrane and were decreased by inhibition of endocytosis. The hearts, but not serum, of Lcn2 knockout (LKO) mice contained lower levels of 2,5-DHBA compared with wild-type hearts. Furthermore, LKO mice were protected from ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction. Our study identifies the siderophore moiety of holo-Lcn2 as a regulator of cardiomyocyte mitochondrial bioenergetics.
An intricate network of hormone signals regulates plant development and responses to biotic and abiotic stress. Salicylic acid (SA), derived from the shikimate/isochorismate pathway, is a key hormone in resistance to biotrophic pathogens. Several SA derivatives and associated modifying enzymes have been identified and implicated in the storage and channeling of benzoic acid intermediates or as bioactive molecules. However, the range and modes of action of SA-related metabolites remain elusive. In Arabidopsis, Enhanced Disease Susceptibility 1 (EDS1) promotes SA-dependent and SA-independent responses in resistance against pathogens. Here, we used metabolite profiling of Arabidopsis wild type and eds1 mutant leaf extracts to identify molecules, other than SA, whose accumulation requires EDS1 signaling. Nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry of isolated and purified compounds revealed 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as an isochorismate-derived secondary metabolite whose accumulation depends on EDS1 in resistance responses and during ageing of plants. 2,3-DHBA exists predominantly as a xylose-conjugated form (2-hydroxy-3-β-O-d-xylopyranosyloxy benzoic acid) that is structurally distinct from known SA-glucose conjugates. Analysis of DHBA accumulation profiles in various Arabidopsis mutants suggests an enzymatic route to 2,3-DHBA synthesis that is under the control of EDS1. We propose that components of the EDS1 pathway direct the generation or stabilization of 2,3-DHBA, which as a potentially bioactive molecule is sequestered as a xylose conjugate.
The iron uptake mechanisms based on siderophore synthesis used by the fish pathogen Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida are still not completely understood, and the precise structure of the siderophore(s) is unknown. The analysis of genome sequences revealed that this bacterium possesses two gene clusters putatively involved in the synthesis of siderophores. One cluster is a candidate to encode the synthesis of acinetobactin, the siderophore of the human pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii, while the second cluster shows high similarity to the genes encoding amonabactin synthesis in Aeromonas hydrophila. Using a combination of genomic analysis, mutagenesis, biological assays, chemical purification, and structural determination procedures, here we demonstrate that most A. salmonicida subsp. salmonicida strains produce simultaneously the two siderophores, acinetobactin and amonabactin. Interestingly, the synthesis of both siderophores relies on a single copy of the genes encoding the synthesis of the catechol moiety (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and on one encoding a phosphopantetheinyl transferase. These genes are present only in the amonabactin cluster, and a single mutation in any of them abolishes production of both siderophores. We could also demonstrate that some strains, isolated from fish raised in seawater, produce only acinetobactin since they present a deletion in the amonabactin biosynthesis gene amoG. Our study represents the first evidence of simultaneous production of acinetobactin and amonabactin by a bacterial pathogen and reveals the plasticity of bacterial genomes and biosynthetic pathways. The fact that the same siderophore is produced by unrelated pathogens highlights the importance of these systems and their interchangeability between different bacteria.
Using a newly available program for calculating the concentrations and speciation of various ions (Pettit, LD & Powell KJ, `SolEq' Academic Software, 1999), we have calculated that at pH 7 the amount of free Fe(III) present in an aqueous solution is 1.4×10−9 M and not 10−18 M as is usually quoted. In the presence of salicylic acid, included in the calculations at 10−4 M, the solubility of Fe(III) is increased to only 9.8×10−9 M suggesting that salicylate is unable to act as a siderophore although it is produced as an extracellular product by several bacterial genera when grown iron deficiently. In the presence of 40 mM phosphate, the soluble Fe(III) concentration is decreased by 104 at pH 7 and again this is hardly affected by the presence of salicylate. Thus, for microorganisms grown either in vitro or in vivo, salicylate is unlikely to function as a iron solubilizing agent. The same conclusions may also apply to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Abstract A new anthranilic acid hydroxylase which catalyzes the conversion of anthranilic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, has been partially purified from crude extracts of the mycelial felts of Aspergillus niger, grown in the presence of anthranilic acid. Neither 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid nor salicylic acid is an intermediate in this conversion. The enzyme is stabilized by glutathione and requires substrate amounts of NADPH. The optimum pH for anthranilic acid hydroxylase activity is around 8.2. The Km values for anthranilic acid and NADPH at pH 8.2 and 30° are 0.15 and 0.16 mm, respectively. The partially purified enzyme is highly specific for anthranilic acid and does not act on related substances such as 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, salicylic acid, m-hydroxybenzoic acid, methylanthranilic acid, and ethylanthranilic acid. Cupric, mercuric, and cadmium ions have a pronounced inhibitory effect on enzyme activity. Metal-chelating agents like o-phenanthroline, α,α'-dipyridyl, salicylaldoxime, and diethyl dithiocarbamate also inhibit the reaction. Sulfhydryl reagents such as p-hydroxymercuribenzoate and N-ethylmaleimide irreversibly inhibit anthranilic acid hydroxylase activity. Crude extracts of the mycelium have the ability to hydroxylate anthranilic acid to 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid in addition to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. This activity, however, is lost on purification.
Metabolites formed in still culture by Ceratocystisclavigera, C. ips, and C. huntii, three of the four Ceratocystis species associated with the blue stain disease of pine, have been identified. In addition to the ubiquitous fungal metabolites ergosterol, ergosterol peroxide, and fatty acids we have isolated succinic acid, β-phenethyl alcohol (1), tryptophol (2), prolylleucyl anhydride (3), tyrosol (4), 3-phenylpropane-1,2-diol (5), 6,8-dihydroxy-3-methylisocoumarin (8), 6,8-dihydroxy-3-hydroxymethylisocoumarin (9), p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (10), phenylacetic acid (11), p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (12), phenyllactic acid (13), p-hydroxyphenyllactic acid (14), and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (15). The complex formed by chelation of iron with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid may be responsible, at least in part, for the blue staining of the sapwood of diseased pine.
Cells of Pseudomonas sp. strain HBP1 grown on 2-hydroxy- or 2,2'-dihydroxybiphenyl contain NADH-dependent monooxygenase activity that hydroxylates 2,2'-dihydroxybiphenyl. The product of this reaction was identified as 2,2',3-trihydroxybiphenyl by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry. Furthermore, the monooxygenase activity also hydroxylates 2,2',3-trihydroxybiphenyl at the C-3' position, yielding 2,2',3,3'-tetrahydroxybiphenyl as a product. An estradiol ring cleavage dioxygenase activity that acts on both 2,2',3-tri- and 2,2',3,3'-tetrahydroxybiphenyl was partially purified. Both substrates yielded yellow meta-cleavage compounds that were identified as 2-hydroxy-6-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-6-oxo-2,4-hexadienoic acid and 2-hydroxy-6-(2,3-dihydroxyphenyl)-6-oxo-2,4-hexadienoic acid, respectively, by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of their respective trimethylsilyl derivatives. The meta-cleavage products were not stable in aqueous incubation mixtures but gave rise to their cyclization products, 3-(chroman-4-on-2-yl)pyruvate and 3-(8-hydroxychroman-4-on-2-yl)pyruvate, respectively. In contrast to the meta-cleavage compounds, which were turned over to salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the cyclization products are not substrates to the meta-cleavage product hydrolase activity. NADH-dependent salicylate monooxygenase activity catalyzed the conversions of salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to catechol and pyrogallol, respectively. The partially purified estradiol ring cleavage dioxygenase activity that acted on the hydroxybiphenyls also produced 2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde and 2-hydroxymuconic acid from catechol and pyrogallol, respectively.
Non-nodulating mutant of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar trifolli produces the phenolate type of siderophore consisting of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and threonine. The activity of this compound against the various bacteria was tested. Only, the growth of R. leguminosarum strains was stimulated by siderophore. The other species of Rhizobium, especially R. meliloti, were sensitive to this agent. The growth of R. meliloti was also inhibited by agrobactin and pseudobactin. This effect was reversed by ferric iron.
Bacteria survive and multiply under iron-limiting conditions, such as those found in natural and medical environments, by expressing active systems that gather this micronutrient, which is essential for most micro-organisms with some exceptions such as lactobacilli. Some systems involve the secretion of low-molecular-mass ferric-binding compounds called siderophores, which can be classified into different categories based on their chemical structure (Neilands, 1981 (Neilands, , 1995 . Many of these high-affinity ironchelating molecules contain catecholate groups that are part of the iron-binding site. Enterobactin, the prototype catechol siderophore produced by Escherichia coli, is a cyclic trimer of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-L-serine (O'Brien & Gibson, 1970; Walsh et al., 1990) . In contrast, siderophores such as vibriobactin and anguibactin, produced by Vibrio cholerae (Griffiths et al., 1984) and Vibrio anguillarum (Actis et al., 1986; Jalal et al., 1989), respectively, are non-cyclic derivatives of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). In vibriobactin, the DHBA moiety is linked to L-threonine Abbreviations: CAS, chrome azurol S; DHBA, dihydroxybenzoic acid; EDDHA, ethylenediamine-di-(o-hydroxyphenyl)acetic acid.
Synthesis of Catechol Derivatives (Chart 1) Commercially available 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 1 was used as starting material for the synthesis of all catechol derivatives 2-8. Catechol 2 was prepared from 1 and [(tert-butyloxycarbonyl)amino]ethylamine 8) with 1,3-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) as coupling reagent. Removal of the butyloxy carbonyl protecting group (Boc) from 2 under acidic conditions using trifluoroacetic acid gave hydrochloride compound 3. Compounds 4 and 6 were obtained from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid using the DCC method in the presence of glycine ethyl ester or N-hydroxysuccinimide, respectively. Treatment of 4 in aqueous sodium hydroxide and subsequent acidification gave compound 5, and reaction of 6 with 1,2-diaminoethane and 1,6-diaminohexane yielded the bis-catechol derivatives 7 and 8, respectively. All compounds were then fully characterised by mass spectrometry, 1 H-, 13 C-NMR and IR spectroscopies.
Tannins and hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid), are plant secondary metabolites which protect plants against herbivores and plant-associated microorganisms. Some microbes, such as the yeast Arxula adeninivorans are resistant to these antimicrobial substances and are able to use tannins and gallic acid as carbon sources. In this study, the Arxula gallic acid decarboxylase (Agdc1p) which degrades gallic acid to pyrogallol was characterized and its function in tannin catabolism analyzed. The enzyme has a higher affinity for gallic acid (Km -0.7 ± 0.2 mM, kcat -42.0 ± 8.2 s-1) than to protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) (Km -3.2 ± 0.2 mM, kcat -44.0 ± 3.2 s-1). Other hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid are not gallic acid decarboxylase substrates. A. adeninivorans G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1, which expresses the AGDC1 gene under the control of the strong nitrate inducible AYNI1 promoter achieved a maximum gallic acid decarboxylase activity of 1064.4 U/l and 97.5 U/g of dry cell weight in yeast grown in minimal medium with nitrate as nitrogen source and glucose as carbon source. In the same medium, gallic acid decarboxylase activity was not detected for the control strain G1212/YRC102 with AGDC1 expression under the control of the endogenous promoter. Gene expression analysis showed that AGDC1 is induced by gallic acid and protocatechuic acid. In contrast to G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1 and G1212/YRC102, A. adeninivorans G1234 [Δagdc1] is not able to grow on medium with gallic acid as carbon source but can grow in presence of protocatechuic acid. This confirms that Agdc1p plays an essential role in the tannic acid catabolism and could be useful in the production of catechol and cis,cis-muconic acid. However, the protocatechuic acid catabolism via Agdc1p to catechol seems to be not the only degradation pathway.
Under low-iron conditions, Escherichia coli synthesizes the siderophore enterobactin. When compared to wild-type cells grown in iron sufficient medium, cells grown under iron limitation, in the absence of tyrosine and phenylalanine or the presence of both, increased catechol production (a measure of enterobactin and its degradation product 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) 5- to 9-fold while cells supplemented with tyrosine alone produced a 10- to 20-fold increase. Mutations in fur, tyrA, pheA, or pheU generally resulted in increased enterobactin production, while a tyrR mutant was unaffected by combinations of tyrosine and phenylalanine.
SCOPE ::: (-)-Epicatechin (EC) and main colonic phenolic acids derived from flavonoid intake, such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DHPAA), 3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid (HPPA), and vanillic acid (VA), have been suggested to exert beneficial effects in diabetes, although the mechanism for their actions remains unknown. In this study, the modulation of glucose homeostasis and insulin signaling by the mentioned compounds on renal proximal tubular NRK-52E cells is investigated. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND RESULTS ::: Levels of the glucose transporters SGLT-2 and GLUT-2, as well as glucose uptake, glucose production, and key proteins of the insulin pathways, namely insulin receptor (IR), insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), and PI3K/AKT pathway are analyzed. EC (5-20 μm) and DHBA (20 μm) reduced both renal glucose uptake and production. Interestingly, EC and DHBA did not modify the levels of SGLT-2 and GLUT-2, and modulated the expression of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase via AKT leading to a diminished glucose production. EC and DHBA also enhanced the tyrosine phosphorylation and total IR and IRS-1 levels, and activated the PI3K/AKT pathway in NRK-52E cells. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: EC and DHBA regulate the renal glucose homeostasis by modulating both glucose uptake and production, and strengthen the insulin signaling by activating key proteins of that pathway in NRK-52E cells.
Abstract The present study examined the ability of antioxidant effects of nicotine on 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP + )-induced hydroxyl radical (·OH) formation of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μl per min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of ·OH as reflected by non-enzymatic formation trapped as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. MPP + enhanced generation of ·OH formation trapped as DHBA. However, nicotine (100 μM) significantly suppressed ·OH formation induced by MPP + . Iron (II) (2, 5 and 10 μM) increased the levels of DHBA in a concentration-dependent manner. However, in the presence of nicotine (100 μM), the effect of nicotine was suppressed. These results suggest that nicotine has a preventive effect on ·OH generation by MPP + in rat striatum.
Acid hydrolysis of vanoxonin yielded one mol each of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, L-threonine, L-N omega-hydroxyornithine. Presence of acetyl group in vanoxonin was suggested by the 1H NMR. Periodate oxidation of vanoxonin liberated one mol of acetic acid suggesting that the acetyl group bound to the omega-nitrogen of N omega-hydroxyornithine. The sequence of three components was determined to be L-N-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)threonyl-L-(N omega-acetyl-N omega-hydroxy)ornithine by mass spectrometric analysis. This structure was confirmed by the total synthesis of vanoxonin.
In this study, the stability constants of a mixed ligand complex of lanthanum(III) ion by using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA, H2A) as a primary ligand and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA, H3B) as a secondary ligand have been investigated. The stability constants of the binary and mixed ligand complexes have been determined by using a potentiometric method and the BEST computer program at 25 °C, in a 0.1 M NaCl ionic medium. In addition, the identified ternary complex by potentiometry was isolated as a solid, and the structural characteristics have been examined using IR, NMR, elemental analysis, differential thermal analysis, thermogravimetric analysis, and the conductivity method.
Siderophores are low molecular weight molecules that allow bacteria to acquire iron from host cell proteins. 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) is the only known siderophore produced by the intracellular pathogen Brucella abortus. Here its role in virulence was assessed by evaluating the ability of a mutant with a disruption of the entC gene to survive and replicate in vitro in murine and bovine cells and in vivo in resistant and susceptible murine hosts. It was hypothesized that DHBA is vital for bacterial virulence by its ability to chelate intracellular iron thereby preventing generation of anti-bacterial hydroxyl radicals via the Haber–Weiss reaction, to scavenge reactive oxygen intermediates and for acquisition of iron needed for nutritional purposes. The data showed DHBA played a significant role for bacterial survival in host cells after infection including in murine macrophages cultured in the presence and absence of exogenous interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) and in bovine trophoblasts supplemented with erythritol. In severely iron-depleted conditions, DHBA was also found to be essential for growth in murine macrophages. Despite these deficiencies, the absence of DHBA had no long-term significant effect on the number of CFU recovered in vivo from either theBrucella -resistant C57BL/6 mice or Brucella-susceptible IFN-γ knock-out C57BL/6 mice.
Surface modification of nanocrystalline TiO2 particles (45 A) with bidentate benzene derivatives, that is, 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and catechol was found to alter optical properties of nanoparticles. The formation of the inner-sphere charge transfer (CT) complexes results in a red shift of the semiconductor absorption compared to unmodified nanocrystallites. The binding structures were investigated by using FTIR spectroscopy. The investigated ligands have the optimal geometry for chelating surface Ti atoms, resulting in ring coordination complexes (catecholate or salycilate type of binuclear bidentate binding), thus restoring six-coordinated octahedral geometry of surface Ti atoms. From the Benesi−Hildebrand plot, the stability constants at pH 2 of the order 103 M−1 have been determined.
Tannins and hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid), are plant secondary metabolites which protect plants against herbivores and plant-associated microorganisms. Some microbes, such as the yeast Arxula adeninivorans are resistant to these antimicrobial substances and are able to use tannins and gallic acid as carbon sources. In this study, the Arxula gallic acid decarboxylase (Agdc1p) which degrades gallic acid to pyrogallol was characterized and its function in tannin catabolism analyzed. The enzyme has a higher affinity for gallic acid (K m −0.7 ± 0.2 mM, k cat −42.0 ± 8.2 s −1 ) than to protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) (K m −3.2 ± 0.2 mM, k cat −44.0 ± 3.2 s −1 ). Other hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid are not gallic acid decarboxylase substrates. A. adeninivorans G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1, which expresses the AGDC1 gene under the control of the strong nitrate inducible AYNI1 promoter achieved a maximum gallic acid decarboxylase activity of 1064.4 U/l and 97.5 U/g of dry cell weight in yeast grown in minimal medium with nitrate as nitrogen source and glucose as carbon source. In the same medium, gallic acid decarboxylase activity was not detected for the control strain G1212/YRC102 with AGDC1 expression under the control of the endogenous promoter. Gene expression analysis showed that AGDC1 is induced by gallic acid and protocatechuic acid. In contrast to G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1 and G1212/YRC102, A. adeninivorans G1234 [ agdc1] is not able to grow on medium with gallic acid as carbon source but can grow in presence of protocatechuic acid. This confirms that Agdc1p plays an essential role in the tannic acid catabolism and could be useful in the production of catechol and cis,cis-muconic acid. However, the protocatechuic acid catabolism via Agdc1p to catechol seems to be not the only degradation pathway.
The generation of hydroxyl (OH) radicals was investigated during ultrasonic irradiation and in the presence of TiO(2). The effect of TiO(2) on an ultrasonic system's oxidation power was evaluated by examining the oxidation of salicylic acid. The generation of the salicylic acid derivatives, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA, was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection under different experimental conditions. The presence of TiO(2) enhanced the generation of DHBA during ultrasonic irradiation, thus indicating a higher oxidation power in the ultrasonic system. Al(2)O(3) also increased the generation of DHBA during irradiation; however, the effect of TiO(2) was found to be higher than that of Al(2)O(3). The addition of OH radical scavengers such as dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), methanol and mannitol significantly suppressed the production of DHBA, and DMSO was found to have the highest suppressive effect among all scavengers. The effects of dissolved gases on the generation of OH radicals were further studied, and their power was found to be in the order Xe > Ar > O(2) > N(2). The degassing of the irradiation solution completely suppressed the generation of OH radicals. These results indicate that the presence of TiO(2) accelerates the generation of OH radicals during ultrasonic irradiation, and that the process may be mediated through the induction of cavitation bubbles in irradiating solutions.
Free radicals have been implicated in the etiology of many neurodegenerative conditions. Yet, because these species are highly reactive and thus short-lived it has been difficult to test these hypotheses. We adapted a method in which hydroxyl radicals are trapped by salicylate in vivo, resulting in the stable and quantifiable products, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA. After systemic (100 mg/kg i.p.) or intraventricular (4 mumol) administration of salicylate, the amount of DHBA in striatal tissue correlated with tissue levels of salicylate. After systemic salicylate, the ratio of total DHBA to salicylate in neostriatum was at least 10-fold higher than that observed after central salicylate. In addition, systemic salicylate resulted in considerably higher concentrations of 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA in plasma than in brain. Therefore, a large portion of the DHBA present in brain after systemic salicylate may have been formed in the periphery. A neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine increased the concentration of DHBA in neostriatum after either central or systemic administration of salicylate. The increase in 2,3-DHBA after the central administration of salicylate was significant at 2 h, but not at 4 h, after the last dose of methamphetamine. These results suggest that (1) when assessing specific events in brain, it is preferable to administer salicylate centrally, and (2) neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine increase the hydroxyl radical content in brain in a time-dependent manner.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa forms biofilms in wounds, which often leads to chronic infections that are difficult to treat with antibiotics. Free iron enhances biofilm formation, delays wound healing, and may even be responsible for persistent inflammation, increased connective tissue destruction, and lipid peroxidation. Exposure of P. aeruginosa Xen 5 to the iron chelator 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), electrospun into a nanofiber blend of poly(d,l-lactide) (PDLLA) and poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO), referred to as DF, for 8 h decreased biofilm formation by approximately 75%. This was shown by a drastic decline in cell numbers, from 7.1 log10 CFU/ml to 4.8 log10 CFU/ml when biofilms were exposed to DF in the presence of 2.0 mM FeCl3 6H2O. A similar decline in cell numbers was recorded in the presence of 3.0 mM FeCl3 6H2O and DF. The cells were more mobile in the presence of DHBA, supporting the observation of less biofilm formation at lower iron concentrations. DHBA at MIC levels (1.5 mg/ml) inhibited the growth of strain Xen 5 for at least 24 h. Our findings indicate that DHBA electrospun into nanofibers inhibits cell growth for at least 4 h, which is equivalent to the time required for all DHBA to diffuse from DF. This is the first indication that DF can be developed into a wound dressing to treat topical infections caused by P. aeruginosa.
The equilibrium reactions of scandium(III) with some triprotic catechol derivatives (H3L) were studied. The selected ligands that are 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), 3.4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid (3,4-DHHCA), and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (3,4-DHPA) were investigated in aqueous solution by means of potentiometry in 0.1 M ionic medium at 25°C. The stability constants are reported for the ScL and ScL(H2L)− mononuclear complexes. 2,3-DHBA can bind to Sc3+ ion strongly and the salicylate mode (COO−, O−) is effective over the acidic pH range. But in higher pH range, 3,4-DHBA, 3,4-DHHCA, and 3,4-DHPA act more efficiently through catecholate groups (O−, O−).
Abstract This study used a weight drop impact injury model to explore the role of iron and the reality of iron-catalyzed hydroxyl radical (•OH) formation in secondary spinal cord injury (SCI). The time course of total extracellular iron was measured following SCI by microcannula sampling and atomic absorption spectrophotometry analysis. Immediately following SCI, the total iron concentration increased from an undetectable level to an average of 1.32 μM. The time course of SCI-induced •OH-generating catalytic activity in the cord was obtained by determining the ability of tissue homogenate to convert hydrogen peroxide to •OH and then measuring 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a hydroxylation product of salicylate. The concentration of 2,3-DHBA quickly and significantly increased (p
Bifunctional Au–Fe3O4 nanoheterodimers were synthesized by thermally decomposing Fe(III)oleate on gold nanoparticles followed by functionalizing with tiron, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, or caffeic acid. These catechol derivatives are antioxidative and thus are predicted to function as superoxide scavengers. In particular, caffeic acid lost its antioxidant capacity, although it was covalently linked through its carboxyl moiety to the Fe3O4 surface. Tiron was shown to bind via its catechol group to the Au–Fe3O4 nanoheterodimers, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic was just physisorbed between the oleic acid surface structures. Caffeic-acid stabilized Au–Fe3O4 nanoheterodimers turned out to act as X-ray protector in healthy cells but as X-ray enhancing agents in cancer cells. Furthermore, these functionalized Au–Fe3O4 nanoheterodimers were found to inhibit the migratory capacity of the cancer cells.
Salicylic acid (2-hydroxybenoic acid) is a phenolic plant hormone that plays an essential role in plant growth and development, including seedling establishment, leaf senescence, and disease resistance (Vlot et al., 2009; Rivas-San Vicente and Plasencia, 2011) . Functioning as an endogenous signal mediating local and systemic plant defensive responses against pathogens, the function of SA is significant. Application of exogenous SA activates plant pathogenesis-related (PR) genes and induces systemic acquired resistance (SAR) in plants (Ward et al., 1991) . The biosynthesis of SA in plants is not yet fully understood, however two pathways have been proposed: the phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) pathway and the isochorismate synthase (IC) pathway. In the PAL pathway, plants synthesize SA from cinnamate produced by PAL (Lee et al., 1995; Ribnicky et al., 1998) . In the IC pathway, SA is synthesized from chorismate through two reactions catalysed by isochorismate synthase (ICS) and isochorismate pyruvate lyase (IPL) (Strawn et al., 2007; Mustafa et al., 2009) . To maintain optimal SA levels for growth and development, plants adopt a direct and efficient approach by controlling hormone biosynthesis and catabolism. In the Arabidopsis genome there are two ICS genes, ICS1, also known as SA INDUCTION DEFICIENT 2 (SID2), and ICS2 (Wildermuth et al., 2001) . In rice (Oryza sativa), one ICS gene has been identified and its role in SA biosynthesis is characterized (Choi et al., 2015) . The most studied SA biosynthetic pathway in rice is the PAL pathway (Sawada et al., 2006) . The SA glucosyltransferases, which convert SA into SA O-βglucoside (SAG), have been identified in both Arabidopsis and rice (Dean and Delaney, 2008; Umemura et al., 2009) . SA is hydroxylated at the C5 or C3 position of its phenyl ring, leading to the formation of 2,5-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) or 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), a process catalysed by DMR6 or DLO1, respectively (Zhang et al., , 2017 . Usually, disruption of SA homeostasis leads to changes in pathogen resistance and plant development. Mutants that over-accumulate SA, such as constitutive expresser of PR genes 1 (cpr1), cpr5, cpr6-1, defense no death 1 (dnd1), and the s5hs3h double mutant, display a significant reduction in rosette leaf size and have constitutive activation of SAR (Bowling et al., 1994; Bowling et al., 1997; Clarke et al., 1998; Yu et al., 1998; Jirage et al., 2001; Zhang et al., 2017) . Although many metabolites in the conjugation and catabolic pathways of SA in plants have been identified, the mechanism for controlling SA homeostasis in rice remains elusive.
Fenton reagent (Fenton 1894 ) is known to play a key role in brown rot decay because it is a diffusible MW low agent that can penetrate the cell wall matrix, even in a chelated form (Koenigs 1974; Kirk et al. 1991; Hyde and Wood 1997; Rättö et al. 1997; Hammel et al. 2002) . It can thus reach the non-crystalline regions of cellulose and cleave the glucan chains, which results in tensile strength loss (Green et al. 1991; Kleman-Leyer et al. 1992; Green and Highley 1997) . According to the mechanism described by Fenton (1894) , a redox reaction proceeds between hydrogen peroxide and ferrous ions, resulting in highly oxidative hydroxyl radicals with a redox potential of +2180 mV for the oneelectron reduction to water (Koppenol and Liebman 1984) . Hydroxyl radicals can cleave glycosidic bonds of polysaccharides, generating carbonyl and carboxyl groups (Halliwell 1965; Gilbert et al. 1984; Kirk et al. 1991) . Degradation of wood ultimately leads to mineralisation, i.e., production of carbon dioxide and water, as reported previously Norbakhsh et al. 2014) . Wood components and their degraded intermediates may facilitate the Fenton reaction, which is accompanied by ML and loss of tensile strength and production of CO 2 . The last quoted studies revealed that the MW low iron chelator 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) accelerated the decomposition of H 2 O 2 in the solution containing ferrous ions but reduced the ML and tensile strength loss. Moreover, the degree of mineralisation was reduced compared with the blank without DHBA. The Fenton reaction [Eq. (1)] preferentially proceeds under moderately acidic conditions generating highly oxidative hydroxyl radicals. At pH 4 (as in this study), the reaction proceeds faster than at lower pH because at this pH, ferrous irons exist mainly as Fe(OH) 2 , which reacts faster with H 2 O 2 than the hexaaquoferrous ion does, which is predominant at pH below 3 (Wells and Salam 1965) .
A number of mutants of Salmonella typhimurium were isolated which are blocked in the biosynthesis of enterobactin, an iron chelator that is secreted by the wild-type bacteria when they are grown on low iron media. One class of these enb mutants accumulates the enterobactin precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and another class does not accumulate any detectable catechol precursor. The enb mutants grow very well on a glucose-mineral salts medium. Addition of citrate, itself an iron chelator, to the medium drastically inhibits growth unless the medium is supplemented with enterobactin or iron salts. Citrate inhibits iron uptake from the medium by enb mutants; enterobactin counteracts this inhibition and also, by itself, increases iron uptake. Thus, the apparent function of enterobactin is to promote the absorption of iron from the medium by the bacteria. Transduction experiments showed that the genes for enterobactin biosynthesis are closely linked on the S. typhimurium chromosome. It is suggested that they form an operon which is repressed by the presence of iron. S. typhimurium can utilize the iron chelate ferrichrome. (Deferriferrichrome is a cyclic hexapeptide that is produced by some fungi but not by S. typhimurium.) The enb mutants use ferrichrome as an effective growth factor.
Cadmium chloride (CdCl2)-induced biochemical changes were characterized in male, CD-1 mouse testes. CdCl2 inhibited the testes microsomal Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity in vitro and in vivo. The inhibitory range was 30-50 microns and the concentration for half maximal inhibition (IC50 value) was 90 microns over 5 min preincubation. CdCl2 (2mg/kg/day, s.c.) for 2 days significantly inhibited testes Na+,K(+)-ATPase (near 90% inhibition). The content of testicular GSH and the ratio of reduced glutathione (GSH)/GSSG (oxidized glutathione) decreased in CdCl2-treated groups. Using salicylate as a trapping agent and high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (LCED), we measured the OH production in vivo. 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as indices of hydroxyl free radical formation significantly increased after 5 days CdCl2 exposure. Pretreatment with vitamin E (20 mg/kg, s.i.d., i.m., 7d) protected CdCl2-induced increase in OH. generation in testes. From this study, it was demonstrated that CdCl2 induced testicular toxicity could possibly be mediated by a significant increase in hydroxyl free radical formation and a reduction in GSH content and Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity. Vitamin E seems to prevent the CdCl2 induced increase in hydroxyl free radical generation.
This article reports on the ability of yeast Trichosporon asahii B1 biofilm-associated cells, compared with that of planktonic cells, to transform sec-hexylbenzene and its metabolites. This B1 strain was isolated from a petroleum-polluted sediment collected in the QuangNinh coastal zones in Vietnam, and it can transform the branched aromatic hydrocarbons into a type of forming biofilm (pellicle) more efficiency than that the planktonic forms can. In the biofilm cultivation, seven metabolites, including acetophenone, benzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, β-methylcinnamic acid, 2-phenylpropionic acid, 3-phenylbutyric acid, and 5-phenylhexanoic acid were extracted by ethyl acetate and analyzed by HPLC and GC-MS. In contrast, in the planktonic cultivation, only three of these intermediates were found. An individual metabolite was independently used as an initial substrate to prove its degradation by biofilm and planktonic types. The degradation of these products indicated that their inoculation with B1 biofilms was indeed higher than that observed in their inoculation with B1 planktonic cells. This is the first report on the degradation of sec-hexylbenzene and its metabolites by a biofilm-forming Trichosporon asahii strain. These results enhance our understanding of the degradation of branched-side-chain alkylbenzenes by T. asahii B1 biofilms and give a new insight into the potential role of biofilms formed by such species in the bioremediation of other recalcitrant aromatic compounds.
The non-oxidative decarboxylation of aromatic acids is a poorly understood reaction. The transformation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to catechol in the fungal metabolism of indole is a prototype of such a reaction. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.46) which catalyzes this reaction was purified to homogeneity from anthranilate induced cultures of Aspergillus oryzae using affinity chromatography. The enzyme did not require cofactors like NAD+, PLP, TPP or metal ions for its activity. There was no spectral evidence for the presence of enzyme bound cofactors. The preparation, which was adjudged homogeneousy by the criteria of SDS-PAGE, sedimentation analysis and N-terminal analysis, was characterized for its physicochemical and kinetic parameters. The enzyme was inactivated by group-specific modifiers like diethyl pyrocarbonate (DEPC) and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM). The kinetics of inactivation by DEPC suggested the presence of a single class of essential histidine residues, the second order rate constant of inactivation for which was 12.5 M−1 min−1. A single class of a cysteine residues was modified by NEM with a second order rate constant of 33 M−1 min−1. Substrate analogues protected the enzyme against inactivation by both DEPC and NEM, suggesting the location of the essential histidine and cysteine to be at the active site of the enzyme. The incorporation of radiolabelled NEM in a differential labelling experiment was 0.73 mol per mol subunit confirming the presence of a single essential cysteine per active-site. Differentially labelled enzyme was enzymatically cleaved and the peptide bearing the label was purified and sequenced. The active-site peptide LLGLAETCK and the N-terminal sequence MLGKIALEEAFALPRFEEKT did not bear any similarity to sequenced. The active-site peptide LLGLAETCK and the Databank, a reflection probably of the unique primary structure of this novel enzyme. The sequences reported in this study will appear in the Swiss-Prot Protein Sequence Databank under the accession number P80402.
Anthranilate hydroxylase from Aspergillus niger catalyzes the oxidative deamination and dihydroxylation of anthranilic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. This enzyme has been purified to homogeneity and has a molecular weight of 89,000. The enzyme is composed of two subunits of 42,000 with 2 gram-atoms of nonheme iron per mol. Fe2+-chelators like alpha,alpha'-dipyridyl and o-phenanthroline are potent inhibitors of the enzyme activity. Absorption and fluorescence spectra of the enzyme offer no evidence for the presence of other cofactors like flavin. Flavins and flavin-specific inhibitors like atebrin have no effect on the activity of the enzyme. The enzyme incorporates one atom of oxygen each from 18O2 and H218O into the product 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Based on these studies, it is concluded that anthranilate hydroxylase from A. niger is a new type of NADPH-linked nonheme iron monooxygenase.
The presence of metal ions in water resources is one of the most common environmental pollutions in developing countries [1] . Metal ions are steadily accumulated in the living environment and cause serious damage to the nervous system, reproductive system, kidney, liver and brain of animals and human beings [2, 3] . In order to remove metal ions, several methods, such as oxidation, precipitation, ion-exchange and adsorption, are widely adopted in water treatment [4] [5] [6] [7] . Among them, the adsorption method is of great interest because of its easy operation and low cost [8] . Chelating resins acting as adsorbents have been widely studied recently for their good combining capacities and adsorption capacities towards metal ions [9] . Furthermore, metal ions adsorbed on chelating resins could also be efficiently desorbed, which makes resins recyclable. Functional groups, such as -OH, −COOH and −NH 2 , in resins are the main acting sites that could combine with metal ions. For instance, Mohammad et al. synthesized a new chelating resin functionalized with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and found that this new chelating resin exhibited good adsorption capacity towards Fe 3+ [9] . Jermakowicz-Bartkowiak et al. have synthesized aminoguanidyl group-modified resins and these resins were good adsorbents for gold [10] . These works revealed that anchoring appropriate functional groups on resins is the key procedure to obtain chelating resins with high adsorption capacities towards metal ions.
Abstract A number of auxotrophs of Aerobacter aerogenes requiring aromatic amino acids for growth have been shown to excrete o -dihydric phenols when incubated with a mixture of glucose, phosphate, magnesium and ammonium ions. Auxotrophs requiring histidine, methionine, cysteine or leucine do not excrete these substances under similar conditions. An auxotroph requiring tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan for growth but unable to grow on shikimic acid accumulates a mixture of 3,4-dihydroxy-benzoic acid and catechol. A tryptophan auxotroph able to utilise anthranilic acid for growth accumulates 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol. A tyrosine auxotroph able to utilise 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid has been shown to accumulate 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol. Catechol may arise consequent on 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid accumulation since suspensions of wild type A. aerogenes form catechol from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Such suspensions also metabolise 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol to compounds not possessing the o -dihydric phenol structure when aerated in the absence of glucose. l -Tryptophan inhibits the accumulation of o -dihydric phenols by three different tryptophan auxotrophs of A. aerogenes but has no effect on the accumulation of these compounds by a tyrosine auxotroph or an auxotroph requiring tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan for growth. The possible relationship of these o -dihydric phenols to the biosynthesis of aromatic compounds is discussed.
We determined the methamphetamine (MA), a potent dopamine (DA) releaser, enhances 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+))-induced hydroxyl radical (&z.rad;OH) generation in the rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of .OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. After administration of MA (5 mg/kg i.v., every 2 h, four times), MA drastically increased DA release and the &z.rad;OH formation. When iron (II) was administered to the MA-treated animals, a marked elevation of DHBA was observed, compared with MPP(+)-only treated animals, that showed a positive linear correlation between DA and .OH formation trapped as DHBA (R(2)=0.985) in the dialysate. These results suggest that MA enhances the &z.rad;OH products of efflux/oxidation due to MPP(+).
Abstract Five compounds containing 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and serine have been detective in the supernatants of cultures of Escheria coli grown in an iron-deficient medium. One of these compounds, ,3-dihydroxy- N -benzolserine, ahd been drscribed perviously. Another of the compounds (Compound E) is suggested as the biologically important member of the group. Compound E appears early in cultures is degraded enzymically of non-enzymically to 2,3-dihydroxy- N -benzoylserine via the other compounds and is a more effective growth factor than 2,3-dihydroxy- N -benzoylserine.
Brucella abortus has been shown to produce two siderophores: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and brucebactin. Previous studies on Brucella have shown that 2,3-DHBA is associated with erythritol utilization and virulence in pregnant ruminants. The biosynthetic pathway and role of brucebactin are not known and the only gene shown to be involved so far is entF. Using cre-lox methodology, an entF mutant was created in wild-type B. abortus 2308. Compared with the wild-type strain, the ΔentF strain showed significant growth inhibition in iron minimal media that became exacerbated in the presence of an iron chelator. For the first time, we have demonstrated the death of the ΔentF strain under iron-limiting conditions in the presence of erythritol. Addition of FeCl(3) restored the growth of the ΔentF strain, suggesting a significant role in iron acquisition. Further, complementation of the ΔentF strain using a plasmid containing an entF gene suggested the absence of any polar effects. In contrast, there was no significant difference in survival and growth between the ΔentF and wild-type strains grown in the murine macrophage cell line J774A.1, suggesting that an alternate iron acquisition pathway is present in Brucella when grown intracellulary.
The kinetics of reaction of benzene-1,2-diol, (–)-4-[1-hydroxy-2(methylamino)ethyl]benzene-1,2-diol, 3-methylbenzene-1,2-diol, 4-methylbenzene-1,2-diol, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzonitrile with CoIII in aqueous acidic perchlorate media have been investigated with the stopped-flow method, at different temperatures (7.5–35 °C), acidities(0.20–2.00 mol dm–3 HClO4), and I= 2.0 mol dm–3(Na[ClO4]). The reactions are first order in the concentrations of both reactants and the dependence of the second order rate constants on acidity is given by the expression k0=A+B[H+]–1. This behaviour is explained by assuming the formation of two differently protonated activated complexes. The substitutents largely effect the contribution of the path which is independent of acidity and involves Co3+(aq), and a linear relation between ΔG‡ and ΔG⊖ suggests an outer-sphere mechanism. However, the path involving [Co(OH)]2+(aq) is not affected by the nature of the organic substrate: because of its high rate with respect to water substitution, an outer-sphere limiting mechanish is advanced.
Abstract The hydrolysis of enterochelin, the cyclic trimer of N-2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-serine, to N-2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine was investigated in relation to the role of enterochelin in the metabolism of iron. N-2,3-Dihydroxybenzoylserine is not an intermediate in the biosynthesis of enterochelin and thus the hydrolysis of enterochelin to the monomer is irreversible. The hydrolysis of enterochelin by cell suspensions of Escherichia coli is dependent on the uptake of an iron (III)-enterochelin complex. The enterochelin esterase activity breaks down enterochelin through the linear trimer and dimer to the monomer. It appears to be a single enzyme reversibly separable into two inactive components. Enterochelin esterase activity is repressed by iron in the growth medium in parallel to the repression of the enzyme system forming enterochelin from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, serine and ATP. Iron is complexed more strongly to enterochelin than to N-2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine, or its other conjugates. A scheme relating enterochelin and its hydrolysis products to the uptake, utilization and excretion of iron by E. coli is proposed.
Patients with chronic facial pain including those with facial arthromyalgia (TMJ dysfunction syndrome) were investigated for evidence of abnormal systemic and intra-articular free radical activity. Chronic facial pain patients showed significantly raised serum 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid after an oral dose of 1.2g of aspirin which indicates increased systemic free radical activity. This was reflected in the TMJ aspirates of the facial arthromyalgia patients which contained thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBA-RS) which is also a product of free radical activity. The synovial aspirates also contained high levels of the hyperalgesic eicosanoid 15-HETE. However, there was no difference between the painful and symptom-free joints, which suggested that in part the clinical features are probably determined by asymmetrical masticatory function or as yet unknown algesic factors such as local cytokine production.
The present invention provides certain nicotine salts, co-crystals, and salt co-crystals, and provides novel polymorphic forms of certain nicotine salts. Specifically, mucinic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and nicotine salts with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, as well as nicotine 4-acetamidobenzoate, nicotine gentisate, and nicotine A crystalline polymorphic form of 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoate is described. The present invention further provides methods for the preparation and characterization of such nicotine salts, co-crystals, and salt co-crystals, and polymorphic forms thereof. In addition, tobacco products including smoking articles, smokeless tobacco products, and electronic smoking articles comprising nicotine salts, co-crystals, and / or salt co-crystals are also provided.
For plasmid preparations, M9 buffer (36) was supplemented with 0.6% Casamino Acids, 1 pg of thiamine per ml, 45 puM FeSO4, 2 mM MgSO4, and 0.2% glucose. Minicell labeling medium consisted of morpholinepropanesulfonic acid medium supplemented with amino acids, purines, pyrimidines, and vitamins as described previously (30), with the following modifications: arginine, 6 mM; cysteine, 0.5 mM; riboflavin, 1 ,ug/ml; folate and niacin, 2 ,ug/ml; pyridine and pyridoxal, 4 ,ug/ml; biotin and pyridoxamine, 8 ,ug/ml; methionine, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were omitted. Restriction endonucleases were purchased from New England Biolabs and Boehringer Mannheim and used as described by Maniatis et al. (21). Nuclease BAL-31 was purchased from Bethesda Research Laboratories and was used according to the supplier's recommendations. Lysozyme, RNase A, proteinase K, and agarose (type II) were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co. [a-32P] 
Flavonoids and phenolic acids from the aerial parts of Platycodon grandiflorum A. DC. were analysed by isocratic TLC, MGD-TLC and HPLC methods. Four flavonoid compounds were determined including luteolin 7-O-glucoside as the main component and apigenin 7-O-glucoside, luteolin and apigenin. When performing HPLC analysis, 12 phenolic acids in the free, depside and glycoside forms were identified. Among them, 3,4-dimethoxycinnamic, caffeic, chlorogenic, ferulic, isoferulic, homovanillic, alpha-resorcylic, m-coumaric, p-coumaric, p-hydroxybenzoic, 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids.
Abstract The current study examined whether opening of the ATP-sensitive K + (K ATP ) channel can induce hydroxyl free radical ( OH) generation, as detected by increases in nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) levels in the rat myocardium. When KCl (4–140 mM) was administered to rat myocardium through microdialysis probe, the level of 2,3-DHBA increased gradually in a potassium ion concentration ([K + ] o )-dependent manner. The [K + ] o for half-maximal effect of the level of 2,3-DHBA production (ED 50 ) was 67.9 μM. The maximum attainable concentration of the level of 2,3-DHBA ( E max ) was 0.171 μM. Induction of glibenclamide (10 μM) decreased OH formation. The half-maximal inhibitory effect (IC 50 ) for glibenclamide against the [K + ] o (70 mM)-evoked increase in 2,3-DHBA was 9.2 μM. 5-Hydroxydecanoate (5-HD, 100 μM), another K ATP channel antagonist, also decreased [K + ] o -induced OH formation. The IC 50 for 5-HD against the [K + ] o (70 mM)-evoked increase in 2,3-DHBA was 107.2 μM. The heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, the normal elevation of 2,3-DHBA in the heart dialysate was not observed in animals pretreated with glibenclamide (10 μM) or 5-HD (100 μM). These results suggest that opening of cardiac K ATP channels by depolarization evokes OH generation.
The major neutral iron-transporting compound produced by Escherichia coli 0111/K58/H2 has been isolated from iron-deficient cultures of the organism and compared with the corresponding compound, enterochelin, produced by E. coli K12. The product contained serine and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and formed a complex with Fe3+. Since the PMR spectra of the products from the two strains were identical, it was concluded that E. coli 0111 also secreted enterochelin under iron-deficient conditions. Although it was not possible to establish the optical configuration of the serine residues in the molecule, the CD spectra of the metal free and Fe3+, complexes were found to be of the same sign and magnitude. The spectra show that metal binding results in considerable conformational changes in the enterochelin molecule. The biological properties of the two compounds appear to be identical as judged by their ability to abolish the bacteriostatic effect of serum on E. coli 0111.
The effect of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) deficiency on methamphetamine-induced hydroxyl radical production in the brain was assessed by the salicylate trapping method. Methamphetamine-induced hyperthermia was also studied. Furthermore, the effect of COMT deficiency on the activities of glutathione S-transferase, quinone reductase and liver mono-oxygenases was assessed with and without l-dopa challenge. Finally, two alternative pathways of l-dopa metabolism were evaluated. Methamphetamine increased 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels only slightly (n.s.) at the lowest dose level (2.5 mg/kg x 4 i.p.). This was accompanied by a simultaneous increase in salicylate levels so that the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid/salicylate ratio decreased correspondingly. Most importantly, no COMT genotype-dependent changes were observed. However, hyperthermia was induced even at the lowest methamphetamine dose, the COMT-deficient mice being most sensitive. COMT deficiency did not significantly change the activities of liver glutathione S-transferase, quinone reductase or 7-ethoxyresorufin and 7-pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylation. In COMT-deficient female mice, l-dopa (30-80 mg/kg b.i.d. for 2 days) did not induce any significant changes in liver or brain glutathione S-transferase and quinone reductase activity or liver 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation activity. The levels of l-dopa conjugates in urine were also negligible in COMT-deficient mice. Skin tyrosinase activity was increased in 7- to 8-day-old hairless COMT-deficient pups. The present results suggest that despite the increased hyperthermic response, COMT deficiency does not increase methamphetamine-induced hydroxyl radical production or change significantly the activity of certain enzymes involved in defense against reactive oxygen species. In conclusion, we found no evidence of increased oxidative stress in the liver or brain of adult mice lacking COMT activity.
Abstract The reaction of NiCl 2 ·6H 2 O with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid=L in n -PrOH:H 2 O=1:1 solution, produced the complex {[Ni 5 L 5 (OH) 7 ]K 4 ·13H 2 O} n . Its structure was investigated using elemental analysis, IR, UV–Vis, NMR and ES MS spectroscopy. The complex is unstable in aqueous solution and its decomposition scheme was proposed on the basis of NMR and ES MS spectra. This may contribute to the understanding of oxidative degradation of catecholic derivatives by Ni(II), as well as to other similar ones.
catechol, andfl-ketoadipate ascatabolites. Alloftheenzymes ofthesequence wereinduced byboth L-tryptophan andsalicylate, andthose foroxidizing kynurenine andits catabolites wereinduced byanthranilate butnotbybenzoate; induction wasnotcoordinate. Molecular weights of66,100 and36,500 weredetermined, respectively, forpurified 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate decarboxylase anditssingle subunit. Substrates forthis enzymewererestricted tobenzoic acids substituted withhydroxyl groups atC-2 andC-3; noaddedcoenzyme wasrequired foractivity. Partially purified anthranilate hydroxylase (deaminating) catalyzed theincorporation ofoneatomof180, derived fromeither '"02 orH2150, into2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Inaprevious study ofthecatabolism ofaromaticacids inTrichosporon cutaneum (1), we showed thattheenzyme 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate decarboxylase (EC4.1.1.46) isstrongly derepressed incells grownon2-hydroxybenzoate (salicylate), despite thefact thatthesubstrate ofthisenzymeisnotacatabolite ofsalicylate. Anexplanation forthis observation hasemerged fromthepresent work.We haveshownthat salicylate derepresses thewholeseries ofenzymes, including 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate decarboxylase, whichtheorganism usesfordegrading L-tryptophan. Thiscatabolic pathway wasfound tobesimilar tothatdemonstrated byprevious workers (5, 20,21)fortryptophan catabolism in Aspergillus niger andClaviceps paspali.
Abstract The hydroxyl radical (·OH) plays a central role in the oxidation and removal of many atmospheric compounds. Measurement of atmospheric ·OH is very difficult because of its high reactivity and low atmospheric abundance. In this article, a simple and highly sensitive method, high performance liquid chromatography coupled with coulometric detection (HPLC-CD), was developed to determine ·OH indirectly by determining its reaction products with salicylic acid (SAL), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA). Under the optimum conditions for its determination, 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA could be well separated and the detection limits for 2,3-DHBA were 3 × 10 −10 mol/L and for 2,5-DHBA were 1.5 × 10 −10 mol/L, which were lower than most previous reports. This method was also applied to measure atmospheric hydroxyl radical levels and demonstrated the feasibility in clean and polluted air.
Abstract We examined whether levodopa ( l -DOPA) might increase production of hydroxyl radicals in intact and dopamine-denervated rat striatum. Salicylate trapping combined with in vivo microdialysis provided measurements of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as a marker of hydroxyl radical production. Acute administration of high-dose l -DOPA (200, 500 mg/kg, i.p.) did not alter 2,3-DHBA levels in intact striatum or in striatum denervated with 6-hydroxydopamine. On the other hand, l -DOPA administration (200 mg/kg, i.p.) transiently increased 2,3-DHBA in dopamine-denervated striatum of rats after repeated administration of l -DOPA (200 mg/kg, i.p., once daily for 16 days). The results indicated that repeated administration of high dose l -DOPA increased production of hydroxyl radicals in dopamine-denervated striatum.
5-Fluorocytosine or flucytosine (FLC) is a well-known drug for anti-fungal treatment and is one of the essential medicines needed in a health system. The main disadvantage of FLC drugs is their instability due to hydration under storage conditions. In the present work, cocrystal/salt screening experiments resulted in three molecular salts of FLC with dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3HBA), 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,5HBA), and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,6HBA), and two cocrystals with gallic acid (GAA) and glutaric acid (GLA). Since FLC drugs are highly susceptible to hydration, the present work concentrated on the stability of the synthesized molecular salts/cocrystals under different relative humidity (RH) conditions. All the newly formed crystalline adducts were characterized structurally, and the crystal structures were determined using single-crystal X-ray diffraction techniques (SCXRD). The FLC–2,6HBA salt was found to be a monohydrate, whereas the FLC–3,5HBA salt was crystallized as a hemipentahydrate. FLC–2,3HBA and FLC–GLA were crystallized in 2 : 1 equimolar ratios of FLC and the coformer. The FLC–GAA cocrystal crystallized in a 1 : 1 equimolar ratio. Two point heterosynthons between FLC and the coformer were observed in all the crystalline structures except FLC–GLA, where the structure was formed through a single point heterosynthon. Stability studies under different relative humidity conditions showed the non-hygroscopicity of the synthesized molecular salts/cocrystals. It was found that the FLC–2,3HBA salt, and the FLC–GAA and FLC–GLA cocrystals did not experience any hydration under the accelerated humidity conditions (both 70–75% RH and 90–95% RH) at ambient temperature (∼30 °C). However, FLC–2,6HBA and FLC–3,5HBA were found to be hygroscopic under 70–75% RH conditions. Furthermore, all the synthesized salts/cocrystals except FLC–3,5HBA were found to be stable for 2 months under ambient conditions (∼30 °C, 60–65% RH). Therefore, the FLC–2,3HBA salt, and the FLC–GAA and FLC–GLA cocrystals are better candidates for the preparation of new drug products of FLC.
attenuates neuronal damage in neonatal rat brain. Anesthetized 7-day-old rats were divided into a normothermia (NT) group (n=6) and a SBHT group (n=7) and subjected to 90-min H-I, followed by a 90-min recovery period. Brain temperature (BT) was regulated by a water-cooled metallic plate placed under the head. The BT of the SBHT group was set at 31.0+/-1.0 uC during the H-I and recovery period. Microdialysis and the salicylate-trapping method were used to detect ·OH in the striatum. Neuronal damage was quantified by counting the surviving neurons at 120 hr after reperfusion. The NT group had significant increases in 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) (223+/-166%) and 2,5-DHBA (321+/-153%) above baseline levels. The increases in 2,3-DHBA (127+/-40%) and 2,5-DHBA (133+/-33%) were significantly lower (p < 0.01) in the SBHT group. The number of surviving neurons was decreased significantly in the NT group but not in the SBHT group. We conclude that SBHT reduces ·OH production during H-I and reperfusion and has protective effects against neuronal damage.
Abstract An efficient synthesis of 5-hydroxyalbuterol is described starting from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The key step utilizes the Stille cross-coupling reaction to install the side-chain functionality.
The formation of hydroxyl radicals following the systemic administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) was studied in the striatum of the rat by quantifying the stable adducts of salicylic acid and D-phenylalanine, namely, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and p-tyrosine, respectively. The repeated administration of MDMA produced a sustained increase in the extracellular concentration of 2,3-DHBA and p-tyrosine, as well as dopamine. The MDMA-induced increase in the extracellular concentration of both dopamine and 2,3-DHBA was suppressed in rats treated with mazindol, a dopamine uptake inhibitor. Mazindol also attenuated the long-term depletion of serotonin (5-HT) in the striatum produced by MDMA without altering the acute hyperthermic response to MDMA. These results are supportive of the view that MDMA produces a dopamine-dependent increase in the formation of hydroxyl radicals in the striatum that may contribute to the mechanism whereby MDMA produces a long-term depletion of brain 5-HT content.
The component of the venom of the Taiwanese banded krait Bungarus multicinctus, beta-bungarotoxin (beta-BuTx), acts as an extremely potent inducer of neuronal apoptosis when applied to rat hippocampal cultures. While induction of cell death is dependent on toxin binding to voltage-activated K+ channels and subsequent internalization, the pro-apoptotic signals triggered by picomolar concentrations of beta-BuTx are not understood. Following toxin binding, a dramatic increase in intracellular Ca2+ became detectable after 30 min, and in reactive oxygen species (ROS) after 3-4 h. Conversely, Ca2+ chelators, radical quenchers and antioxidants efficiently antagonized beta-BuTx induced apoptosis. As shown for the antioxidant 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, analysis by matrix assisted laser desorbtion-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry excluded the protective effects to be due to reductive cleavage of the toxic beta-BuTx dimer. Inhibitors of the intracellular antioxidant defence system enhanced neuronal susceptibility to beta-BuTx, supporting the essential role of ROS in beta-BuTx-initiated apoptosis. Cell damage was accompanied by an accumulation of markers of oxidative cell stress, phospholipid hydroxyperoxides and the lipid peroxidation product, malonyl dialdehyde. These observations indicate that beta-BuTx-induced cell death resulted from an intracellular signalling cascade involving subsequent stages of a dramatic rise in free Ca2+, the accumulation of ROS, membrane lipid peroxidation and, finally, apoptosis.
In the reactions of oxidative addition of 2,6- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids to triphenyl- and tri(4-methylphenyl)antimony in the presence of hydrogen peroxide as an oxidizing agent, the acids act as monofunctional compounds to form triarylantimony dicarboxylates. Molecular structures of the synthesized compounds were determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. The tendency of compounds in crystals to dimerization with the formation of intermolecular hydrogen O—H⋯O=C bonds was revealed.
Abstract Electrochemical oxidation of catechol ( 1d ), 3-methylcatechol ( 1a ), 3-methoxycatechol ( 1b ) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( 1c ) in the presence of 4-hydroxycoumarin as nucleophile in aqueous solution has been studied using cyclic voltammetry and controlled-potential coulometry. The results indicate that ( 1a–1d ) participating in a 1,4 (Michael) addition reaction convert to coumestan derivatives ( 5a–5d ). The electrochemical synthesis of 5a–5d has been successfully performed in an undivided cell in good yield and purity.
Iron is an essential cofactor for most bacterial species. 1 The iron supply is normally limited in the environment because of the low solubility of Fe 3+ at neutral or basic pH. In mammalian hosts, the free Fe 3+ concentration is further lowered by Fe 3+ -binding proteins to an estimated 10 -24 M. 1 To survive in an iron-deficient environment, bacteria have evolved the ability to biosynthesize dedicated Fe 3+ -binding small molecules, or siderophores, to scavenge iron from the environment. 2 One of the best studied siderophores is enterobactin (Ent) (Figure 1 ), a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine macrotrilactone produced by enteric bacteria, such as E. coli and Salmonella enterica. 1 Ent is the strongest Fe 3+ ligand known with an estimated K D of 10 -49 M (10 -35 M at physiological pH). 3, 4 The genes involved in the biosynthesis, transport, and processing of Ent are clustered into a 20 kB region of the bacterial chromosome controlled by the iron-dependent repressor Fur. 2 The biosynthesis of Ent from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and Ser requires the action of EntB, EntD, EntE, and EntF 5-8 and follows nonribosomal peptide synthetase logic. 2, 9 Following synthesis in the bacterial cytoplasm, Ent is exported from the cell in a process that involves YbdA (EntS). 10 Ent molecules that have successfully bound to extracellular Fe 3+ are recognized by the outer membrane receptor FepA and are imported through an active transport process. 11, 12 Iron release from ferric Ent (Fe-Ent) requires the enzyme Fes, which has been shown to catalyze the hydrolysis of Fe-Ent despite conflicting reports on whether Fes prefers apo Ent or Fe-Ent as substrate. [13] [14] [15] [16] Since the DHBSer monomer has a much lower affinity for Fe 3+ , the hydrolysis † Harvard Medical School. ‡ Harvard University.
The mechanisms involved in producing this neurodegeneration are not fully understood at present, but recent data indicate that a major mechanism by which MDMA induces damage to 5-HT containing neurones in rat brain is by increasing the formation of hydroxyl free radicals Colado et al., 1997b; Yeh, 1999) which probably result from MDMA metabolism . The use of intracerebral microdialysis has demonstrated that systemic administration of MDMA increases the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) from salicylate in hippocampal and striatal dialysates (Colado et al., 1997b; Shankaran et al., 1999) , a conversion that only occurs in the presence of a high concentration of free radicals. The fact that this eect was absent in rats with a lesion of the 5-HT nerve terminals indicates that these reactive species are probably formed in 5-HT nerve endings (Colado et al., 1997b) . Additional evidence supporting the existence of an oxidative stress includes the report that the hydroxyl radical scavenger alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) is neuroprotective Colado et al., 1997b; Yeh, 1999) and also abolishes the MDMAinduced rise in 2,3-DHBA (Colado et al., 1997b) , the observation that MDMA increases lipid peroxidation in the brain (Sprague & Nichols, 1995; Colado et al., 1997a) and the fact that transgenic mice overexpressing CuZn superoxide dismutase are resistant to the neurotoxic actions of the drug (Cadet et al., 1995) .
SA can be converted to a number of derivatives. These molecules have roles as either transportable forms of SA (such as methyl-salicylate, MeSA) or inactive/storage forms of SA (Figure 1 ). Among the latter are glucosylated SA derivatives-salicylic acid glucoside (SAG) and salicylic acid glucose ester (SGE) [24] . These molecules are stored in the vacuole and can be reversely converted to SA [25] . Hydroxylated SA derivatives-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA-are catabolic SA forms in the cytosol [26] . Yet, glycosylation of these molecules by UGT76D1 (an UDP-glycosyltransferase) was shown to be a part of the immune response to Pst DC3000 in A. thaliana and regulated ICS1-dependent SA production [27] . In A. thaliana, SA can also be sulfonated by cytosolic SOT12 sulphotransferase. SA sulfonation has a similar positive feedback on SA accumulation in stressed plants [28] . Aspartyl amino acid conjugates of SA are thought to attenuate SA signaling, and they are formed by GH3.5 in A. thaliana [29] .
We examined whether ouabain-induced Ca(2+) overload increases hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) in rat striatum. These elevations seem to induce lipid peroxidation of striatum of rats, as detected by increases in non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) levels. Ouabain enhanced MPP(+)-induced *OH formation trapped as DHBA. Moreover, when iron (II) was administered to MPP(+) then ouabain (100 micro M)-pretreated animals, a marked elevation in the level of DHBA was observed, as compared with the iron (II)-only-treated animals. These results suggests that Ca(2+) overload might enhance *OH generation by MPP(+) in rat striatum.
Oxidative stress is accepted as one of the causes of beta cell failure in type 2 diabetes. Therefore, identification of natural antioxidant agents that preserve beta cell mass and function is considered an interesting strategy to prevent or treat diabetes. Recent evidences indicated that colonic metabolites derived from flavonoids could possess beneficial effects on various tissues. The aim of this work was to establish the potential anti-diabetic properties of the microbial-derived flavonoid metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DHPAA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid (HPPA). To this end, we tested their ability to influence beta cell function and to protect against tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced beta cell toxicity. DHPAA and HPPA were able to potentiate glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in a beta cell line INS-1E and in rat pancreatic islets. Moreover, pre-treatment of cells with both compounds protected against beta cell dysfunction and death induced by the pro-oxidant. Finally, experiments with pharmacological inhibitors indicate that these effects were mediated by the activation of protein kinase C and the extracellular regulated kinases pathways. Altogether, these findings strongly suggest that the microbial-derived flavonoid metabolites DHPAA and HPPA may have anti-diabetic potential by promoting survival and function of pancreatic beta cells.
The electrochemical and spectroscopic behaviour of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and its oxidized forms have been studied in dimethyl sulfoxide solutions under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The products resulting from the reaction with manganese(II) (in dimethyl sulfoxide) are also studied by cyclic voltammetry, u.v–vis., n.m.r. and e.s.r. spectroscopies. Under anaerobic conditions the anions of the ligand form stable complexes with manganese(II) and (III) of MnL2 type, while in the presence of air the oxidized forms of the ligand react with manganese(II) to give mixed-valence species. The chemical stability of the semiquinone and its manganese complexes in addition to its photosensitivity is noteworthy. Calculations show that the electrogenerated manganese(III)–(2,3-DHB–semiquinone) system is stable, but redox-active and can undergo a two-electron exchange (per monomer). The dimeric (or oligomeric) species should be good candidates for water oxidation studies.
Catabolic pathways for utilization of naphthalene (NAP), anthracene (ANT), phenanthrene (PHE), and fluoranthene (FLA) by Sphingomonas paucimobilis EPA505 were identified. Accumulation of catabolic intermediates was investigated with three classes of Tn5 mutants with the following polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH)-negative phenotypes; (class I NAP(-) PHE(-) FLA(-), class II NAP(-) PHE(-), and class III FLA(-)). Class I mutant 200pbhA had a Tn5 insertion within a meta ring fission dioxygenase (pbhA), and a ferredoxin subunit gene (pbhB) resided directly downstream. Mutant 200pbhA and other class I mutants lost the ability to catalyze the initial dihydroxylation step and did not transform NAP, ANT, PHE, or FLA. Class I mutant 401 accumulated salicylic acid, 2-hydroxy-3-naphthoic acid, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, and hydroxyacenaphthoic acid during incubation with NAP, ANT, PHE, or FLA, respectively. Class II mutant 132pbhC contained the Tn5 insertion in an aldolase hydratase (pbhC) and accumulated what appeared to be meta ring fission products: trans-o-hydroxybenzylidene pyruvate, trans-o-hydroxynaphylidene pyruvate, and trans-o-hydroxynaphthyl-oxobutenoic acid when incubated with NAP, ANT, and PHE, respectively. When mutant 132pbhC was incubated with 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, it accumulated trans-o-hydroxybenzylidene pyruvate. Class III mutant 104ppdk had a Tn5 insertion in a pyruvate phosphate dikinase gene that affected expression of a FLA-specific gene and accumulated a proposed meta ring fission product; trans-o-hydroxyacenaphyl-oxobutenoic acid during incubation with FLA. Trans-o-hydroxyacenaphyl-oxobutenoic acid was degraded to acenaphthenone that accumulated with class III mutant 611. Acenaphthenone was oxidized via incorporation of one molecule of dioxygen by another oxygenase. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was the final FLA-derived catabolic intermediate detected. Analysis of PAH utilization mutants revealed that there are convergent and divergent points involved in NAP, ANT, PHE, and FLA utilization by S. paucimobilis EPA505.
Abstract Oxygen free radicals have been implicated in the pathogenesis of cerebral ischemia and reperfusion injury. 4-Hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidene-1-oxyl (Tempol) has been reported as a stable nitroxide and a membrane-permeable free radical scavenger. This study was performed to investigate the mechanism of Tempol in attenuating ischemia–reperfusion injury in a rat model of transient focal cerebral ischemia. We measured the cerebral 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) level as the amount of hydroxyl radical production using a microdialysis technique with salicylic acids trapping during ischemia and reperfusion. The concentration of cerebral thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), representing the extent of lipid peroxidation by free radicals, and the area of cerebral infarction were also measured. The level of cerebral 2,3-DHBA was increased during ischemia and reperfusion, especially during the early reperfusion stage at the periphery of the infarct area (nearly 500-fold). Intravenous administration of Tempol at the time of reperfusion reduced 2,3-DHBA production (Vehicle group: 472.2±196.2, Tempol group: 238.3±77.2) and the cerebral TBARS level (Vehicle group: 541.7±84.7, Tempol group: 339.0±147.2 nmol/g), and decreased the size of the cerebral infarction (Vehicle group: 202.2±98.4, Tempol group: 98.5±13.7 mm 3 ). In contrast, Tempol administered 15 min prior to reperfusion reduced neither the TBARS level nor the size of the infarction. These results indicate that Tempol administration at the time of reperfusion reduced lipid peroxidation by scavenging free radicals, resulting in a reduction of the infarct size.
Abstract A highly sensitive spectrophotometric method for the selective detection of catechol compounds such as catechol siderophores (e.g., enterobactin) is described. The basis of the method involves the ability of the vicinal aromatic hydroxyl groups under acidic conditions to bring about a reduction of Fe 3+ (from ferric ammonium citrate) to Fe 2+ . Detection of Fe 2+ in the presence of Fe 3+ is made with 1,10-phenanthroline under previously established conditions. The assay mixture is heated at 60°C for 1 h to accelerate the development of color which is subsequently measured at 510 nm. The Beer-Lambert law is obeyed over the range of 0.16 to 60 μ m 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Compared to the Arnow nitration method, the assay is more responsive, is approximately seven times more sensitive, and is effective with catechols substituted at positions 3 and 4. The method gives positive results with catechols such as dl -DOPA, l -dopamine, (+_)-epinephrine, and dl -norepinephrine. Very rapid color development is obtained with ascorbic acid and p -diols, while m -diols are poorly detected. Low degrees of reactivity are shown by hydroxylamino and hydroxamate compounds. Phenolic, sulfydryl, indolyl, and quinonyl derivatives do not interfere with the reaction. The method has been adapted to determine catechol compounds in the culture medium of bacterial cells grown at different iron concentrations.
In this study, the composition and stability constants of a mixed ligand complex of Sc(III), Y(III) and La(III) ion by using NTA (H3B) (Nitrilotriacetic acid) and HEDTA (H3B) (N-(2-hydroxyethyl)ethylenedinitrilotriacetic acid) as a primary ligand and 2,3-DHBA (H3A) (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) as secondary ligand have been determined by using a potentiometric method and the BEST computer programme at 25◦C, in a 0.1 M NaCl ionic medium. The complex stability was found to follow the trend Sc(III) > Y(III) > La(III) based on the ionic radius of the metal ions.
It has been suggested that salicylate hydroxylation can be used to detect hydroxyl radical formation in vivo. In the present study we investigated the effects of verapamil and or ryanodine on salicylate (SA) and its hydroxylated adduct; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) levels in glutamate induced neurotoxicity of whole rat brains. To detect SA and 2,3-DHBA, an HPLC-EC/UV method was used. Retention time was found to be 3.9 min for 2,3-DHBA and 12.0 min for SA. Verapamil at 10(-5) and 10(-7) and ryanodine at 10(-5) M concentrations were found to have a significant decreasing effect on this degradation induced by glutamate. This was the highest dose for ryanodine tested. As an L-type voltage dependent calcium channel blocker, verapamil was found ineffective at 10(-4), 10(-6) and 10(-8) M concentrations. Surprisingly, none of the combined application groups (verapamil + ryanodine) was found effective on SA hydroxylation. As a result, ryanodine was effective only at the highest dose, while verapamil exerts its effect in a dose dependent fashion as reported before in the literature.
Abstract One of the major adverse effects of vancomycin (VAN) is nephrotoxicity, which the mechanism is not fully understood. However, there is some evidence that oxidative injury could be involved in its pathogenesis. In this study, we examined two antioxidants 4-hydroxyl-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl (tempol) a superoxide dismutase mimetic and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) an iron chelator in VAN-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. DHB at doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg and tempol at doses of 7.5, 15 and 30 mg/kg were administered subcutaneously to rats 30 min prior to intraperitoneal injection of 200 mg/kg VAN. Drug administrations were done every 12 h for 7 days. In animals which received only VAN, the activity of urinary γ-glutamyl-transferase (GGT) decreased and the activity of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in urine increased significantly compared to controls. Serum urea and creatinine (Cr) concentrations and the weight of animals’ kidneys increased and body weights were decreased significantly in this group compared to controls. DHB at both doses normalized the GGT activity, but only at the higher dose restore the LDH activity. Both doses of DHB ameliorated the rise in serum urea and Cr concentrations and improved the changes in kidney and body weights significantly. Tempol did not show any beneficial effects at all. There were marked pathologic changes in tubules of kidneys of VAN treated animals. The tissue injury was prevented by both doses of DHB and there was almost no sign of tubular injury in 100 mg/kg treated group. Tempol in any doses could not prevent the tissue injury and there were significant differences in tissue injury in all tempol treated rats with controls. It seems that VAN-induced nephrotoxicity is at least partly due to free radical formation. Hydroxyl radicals might play a major role in VAN-induced nephrotoxicity, since an iron chelator (DHB) could reverse the adverse effects. However, production of other radicals such as superoxide is also probable.
PURPOSE: A composition for bone-grafting or bone-filling is provided to improve alveolar bone formability, calcium accumulation rate, and activity of alkaline phosphatase. CONSTITUTION: A composition for bone-grafting or bone-filling includes a dihydroxybenzoic acid derivative selected among 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, ethyl 2,4-dihydroxybenzoate, methyl 2,4-dihydroxybenzoate, ethyl 2,5-dihydroxybenzoate, ethyl 2,6-dihydroxybenzoate, and ethyl 3,5-dihydroxybenzoate. The dihydroxybenzoic acid derivative is ethyl 2,4-dihydroxybenzoate or ethyl 2,5-dihydroxybenzoate.
Summary The adenylation (A) domains of nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) activate aryl acids or amino acids to launch their transfer through the NRPS assembly line for the biosynthesis of many medicinally important natural products. In order to expand the substrate pool of NRPSs, we developed a method based on yeast cell surface display to engineer the substrate specificities of the A-domains. We acquired A-domain mutants of DhbE that have 11- and 6-fold increases in k cat / K m with nonnative substrates 3-hydroxybenzoic acid and 2-aminobenzoic acid, respectively and corresponding 3- and 33-fold decreases in k cat / K m values with the native substrate 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, resulting in a dramatic switch in substrate specificity of up to 200-fold. Our study demonstrates that yeast display can be used as a high throughput selection platform to reprogram the "nonribosomal code" of A-domains.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species have been implicated as mediators of mucosal injury in inflammatory bowel disease. This study investigated hydroxyl radical (.OH) generation in the inflamed colon of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis by measuring the .OH-specific product of salicylate hydroxylation, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). Colitis was induced in 6-7 week old CBA/H male mice by supplementing the drinking water with 5% DSS for 7 days. On the last day of dextran exposure, mice were injected with salicylate (SAL) (100 mg/kg i.p.) 60 min before sacrifice, and mucosal homogenates were assayed for SAL and 2,3-DHB by HPLC with fluorescence and electrochemical detection. Mucosal 2,3-DHB levels in mice exposed to 5% DSS were increased by 83% (p < .005); however, SAL levels were also elevated by 182% (p < .001). This translated to a 34% decrease in the ratio 2,3-DHB:SAL in inflamed mucosa, possibly indicating greater catabolism or decreased production of 2,3-DHB. In vitro investigation of the stability of DHBs and SAL in the presence of oxidants of inflammatory lesions revealed that 2,3-DHB and 2,5-DHB were rapidly degraded by hypochlorous acid (HOCl), with initial decomposition rates of 190 and 281 nmol/min, respectively (100microM DHB with 200microM HOCl). Methionine prevented decomposition of DHBs in vitro; however, in mice with 5% DSS-induced colitis, where mucosal myeloperoxidase activity was ten-fold control levels (p < .001), administration of methionine (up to 200 mg/kg i.p.) with SAL was ineffective at increasing the ratio 2,3-DHB:SAL. SAL was also degraded in vitro by HOCl (4.7 nmol/min) resulting in the formation of new fluorescent species which may be useful as indicators of HOCl-mediated injury. Salicylate hydroxylation was unable to provide conclusive evidence supporting a role for .OH in the tissue injury of DSS-induced colitis, as metabolic disturbances in the diseased animals other than changes in .OH generation may have altered 2,3-DHB levels. This problem is relevant to any study involving the in vivo use of trapping molecules. In particular, the susceptibility of 2,3-DHB to degradation by HOCl brings into question the usefulness of salicylate hydroxylation for measurement of .OH-generation in any neutrophilic inflammatory lesion.
Abstract Isoniazid is the primary constituent of “triple therapy” used to effectively treat tuberculosis. In tuberculosis and other diseases, tissue inflammation and free radical burst from macrophages results in oxidative stress. These free radicals cause pulmonary inflammation if not countered by anti-oxidants. Therefore, in the present study cocrystals of isoniazid with four anti-oxidant hydroxy benzoic acids have been reported. Gallic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3-hydroxybenzoic acid resulted in the formation of cocrystals when reacted with isoniazid. Cocrystal structure analysis confirmed the existence of pyridine–carboxylic acid synthon in the cocrystals of isoniazid with Gallic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3-hydroxybenzoic acid. While cocrystal of 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid formed the pyridine–hydroxy group synthon. Other synthons of different graph sets are formed between hydrazide group of isoniazid and coformers involving N H⋯O and O H⋯N bonds. All the cocrystals were in 1:1 stoichiometric ratio.
Abstract The siderophore enlerobactin has an extraordinary affinity for ferric ion. Hydrogen bonding has been proposed to play a significant role in the extra binding affinity enterobactin shows relative to synthetic analogues. These analogues contain 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl subunits or, as in the present study, 2,3-dihydroxyterephthalamide ligand groups. The bisethyl amide of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) crystallizes in space group P21/c with a = 7.387(2), b = 25.068(4), c = 7.198(2) A, β = 100.42(2)[ddot] with z = 4. The structure of 1 shows that the conformation of the acid form of these ligands has the amide carbonyl hydrogen bonded to the catechol proton. The cyclic trimer diamide of ethylenediamine with 2,3-dimethoxyterephthalic acid (2) crystallizes in Pbca with a = 25.891(2), b = 17.361(3), c = 33.665(2) A, z = 16. The two independent molecules of 2 have slightly different conformations largely due to the effects of hydrogen bonding from the amide proton to the catechol oxygen. This is the hydrogen ...
The oxidation of aromatic derivatives in aqueous goethite slurry at varying catalyst load and hydrogen peroxide concentration is investigated. For adopted experimental conditions only the compounds containing two adjacent -OH groups or one -OH and one -NH2 groups are oxidized. A model previously developed for the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid has been satisfactorily used to describe the oxidation of 1,2-benzenediol (catechol), 2-aminophenol and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
We studied the rate of decay of granulocyte adherence following isolation from human blood using the nylon-fibre microcolumn technique recently developed in our laboratory. The decay in adherence was found to be evident by 6 h, pronounced by 24 h, and very substantial by 48 h. This decay in adherence can be reversed by incubation at 4 degrees C instead of 37 degrees C. It can also be retarded by incubation with both superoxide dismutase and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The data suggests that peroxidation of the granulocyte membrane is a possible mechanism for the decay in granulocyte adherence. These results provide further insight into biological aspects of granulocyte activity, and have implications for the laboratory evaluation of granulocyte function.
Abstract Enhancement of the potency and melanoma-selectivity of redox agents was sought by two different approaches. In screening a series of catechols, derivatives of moderate half-life (dopa, dopamine, noradrenaline, 3,4-dihydroxybenzylamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid; t 1 2 12–33 hr ) had significant toxicity (D37 20–30 μM) and selectivity for melanoma cells compared with HeLa. Less stable catechols (5-hydroxy- and 6-hydroxydopamine; t 1 2 4 and 5 hr respectively) were toxic but lacked selectivity whereas more stable derivatives (4-hydroxyanisole, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; t 1 2 > 72 hr ) were less potent (D37 > 100 μM and had poor selectivity. Gossypol, a complex catechol derivative, exhibited significant toxicity (D37 7.7 μM) but little selectivity. Enzymes capable of reacting with components of the culture medium and known to continuously generate hydrogen peroxide (glucose-6-oxidase) or Superoxide ion (xanthine oxidase) exhibited a similar degree of selectivity as dopa, indicating that active oxygen species are more important mediators of catechol toxicity than quinones. Rhodamine 123, a cationic dye preferentially taken up by some tumour cells, was accumulated equally by melanoma and HeLa yet had a similar selectivity to that of dopa. In the second approach, the potency of dopa was found to be greatly enhanced during early S phase. This phenomenon, found with cells synchronised both by mitotic shake off and by 24 hr accumulation in G1S in the presence of 5 mM hydroxyurea, occurred during a period in which the proportion of cells in S phase cells was low. These results indicate that human cells are extremely sensitive to extracellular active oxygen species during a relatively short period in early S phase, and selective killing of asynchronous melanoma cells therefore requires agents capable of sustaining a redox effect for at least one cell cycle.
Microcin E492 is a channel-forming bacteriocin that is found in two forms, namely, a posttranslationally modified form obtained by the covalent linkage of salmochelin-like molecules to serine 84 and an unmodified form. The production of modified microcin E492 requires the synthesis of enterochelin, which is subsequently glycosylated by MceC and converted into salmochelin. mceC mutants produced inactive microcin E492, and this phenotype was reversed either by complementation with iroB from Salmonella enterica or by the addition of exogenous salmochelin. Cyclic salmochelin uptake by Escherichia coli occurred mainly through the outer membrane catecholate siderophore receptor Fiu. The production of inactive microcin E492 by mutants in entB and entC was reverted by the addition of the end product of the respective mutated pathway (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and enterochelin/salmochelin, respectively), while mutants in entF did not produce active microcin E492 in the presence of enterochelin or salmochelin. The EntF adenylation domain was the only domain required for this microcin E492 maturation step. Inactivation of the enzymatic activity of this domain by site-directed mutagenesis did not prevent the synthesis of active microcin E492 in the presence of salmochelin, indicating that the adenylation activity is not essential for the function of EntF at this stage of microcin E492 maturation.
Abstract Pine wood (Pinus sylvestris) veneer strips were incubated in acetate buffer containing hydrogen peroxide and Fe ions (Fenton's reagent) to mimic aspects of brown rot decay and to assess the degradation of cellulose in wood via measurement of tensile properties (measured in a zero-span mode). Varying the type of iron (ferrous or ferric sulfate) mixed with H2O2 did not yield significant differences in the rates of H2O2 concentration and tensile strength reduction. However, increasing the amount of wood material (the number of wood strips) in the reaction mixture elevated Fe(III) reduction in solution, indicating that wood constituents participated in this reaction. Increasing concentrations of Fe(III) in the reaction mixture resulted in a decrease in H2O2 in solution. Despite an increase in iron concentration and H2O2 decomposition under these conditions, a uniform and consistent strength loss of 30% was observed at all Fe(III) concentrations tested. At fixed Fe(III) concentrations, increasing the H2O2 concentration linearly increased the strength loss of the veneers up to approximately 50% within 24 h. The addition of a low molecular weight, metal-binding, phenolic compound (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and of a non-chelating hydroquinone to the reaction mixtures entailed a more rapid consumption of H2O2; however, the tensile strength loss of the veneers decreased with increasing concentration of the phenolics. Thus, in contrast to previous studies on cellulose degradation, phenolics reduced the degree of wood decay in a Fenton system.
Nuclear Factor κB (NFκB) is an ubiquitous rapid response transcription factor involved in inflammatory reactions and exerts its action by expressing cytokines, chemokines, and cell adhesion molecules. We investigated the role of NF-κB in acute hypovolemic hemorrhagic (Hem) shock. Hem shock was induced in male anesthetized rats by intermittently withdrawing blood from an iliac catheter over a period of 20 min (bleeding period) until mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) fell and stabilized within the range of 20–30 mmHg. Hemorrhagic shocked rats died in 26.3 ± 2.1 min following the discontinuance of bleeding, experienced a marked hypotension (mean arterial blood pressure = 20–30 mmHg) and had enhanced plasma levels of Tumor Necrosis Factor-α (200 ± 15 pg/ml, 20 min after the end of bleeding). Furthermore, aortas taken 20 min after bleeding from hemorrhagic shocked rats showed a marked hypo-reactivity to phenylephrine (PE; 1nM to 10 μM) compared with aortas harvested from sham shocked rats. Hem shocked rats also had increased levels of TNF-α mRNA in the liver (15–20 min after the end of bleeding) and enhanced plasma levels of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA; 6 ± 2.2 μm), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA; 13 ± 2.1 μm), both studied to evaluate OH• production. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that liver NF-κB binding activity increased in the nucleus 10 min after the end of hemorrhage and remained elevated until the death of animals. Western blot analysis suggested that the levels of inhibitory IκBα protein in the cytoplasm became decreased at 5 min after the end of bleeding. IRFI-042, a vitamin E analogue (20 mg/kg intraperitoneally 2 min after the end of bleeding), inhibited the loss of IκBα protein from the cytoplasm and blunted the increase in NF-κB binding activity. Furthermore IRFI-042 increased survival time (117.8 ± 6.51 min; p < .01) and survival rate (vehicle = 0% and IRFI-042 = 80%, at 120 min after the end of bleeding), reverted the marked hypotension, decreased liver mRNA for TNF-α, reduced plasma TNF-α (21 ± 4.3 pg/ml), and restored to control values the hypo-reactivity to PE. Our results suggest that acute blood loss (50% of the estimated total blood volume over a period of 20 min) causes early activation of NF-κB, likely through an increased production of reactive oxygen species. This experiment indicates that NF-κB-triggered inflammatory cascade becomes early activated during acute hemorrhage even in the absence of resuscitation procedures.
Analysis ofaclinical isolate ofAcinetobacter baumannii showed that this bacterium wasable togrowunder iron-limiting conditions, using chemically defined growth mediacontaining different ironchelators suchas humantransferrin, ethylenediaminedi-(o-hydroxyphenyl)acetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, and2,2'-bipyridyl. Thisironuptake-proficient phenotype wasduetothesynthesis andsecretion ofacatechol-type siderophore compound. Utilization bioassays using theSalmoneUla typhimurium ironuptake mutants enb-1andenb-7 proved thatthis siderophore isdifferent fromenterobactin. Thiscatechol siderophore waspartially purified fromculture supernatants byadsorption chromatography using anXAD-7resin. Thepurified component exhibited achromatographic behavior andaUV-visible light absorption spectrum different fromthose of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid andother bacterial catechol siderophores. Furthermore, thesiderophore activity of this extraceliular catechol wasconfirmed byitsability tostimulate energy-dependent uptake of55Fe(M) aswell astopromote thegrowth ofA.baumannii bacterial cells underiron-deficient conditions imposed by60,uM humantransferrin. Polyacrylamide gelelectrophoresis analysis showed thepresence ofiron-regulated proteins inbothinner andouter membranes ofthis clinical isolate ofA.baumannii. Someofthese membraneproteins maybeinvolved intherecognition andinternalization oftheiron-siderophore complexes. Acinetobacter baumannii, formerly knownasAcinetobactercalcoaceticus subsp. anitratus (15), belongs toabacterial species thatiswidely distributed throughout theenvironment(6). Thismicroorganism canbeisolated fromtheskin (3, 43)andrespiratory tract (59) ofhealthy ambulatory adults aswell asfromhospital personnel andequipment (36, 39,46, 67). Lately, numerousoutbreaks ofnosocomial infections caused byA.baumannii havebeenreported (7-10, 16,42, 47,56,57,73), whichareofparticular concern because of thewidespread andincreasing antibiotic resistance ofthe isolated strains (17, 30,32,33,40,41,48). Nevertheless, mostinfections haveoccurred inpatients compromised by either antibiotic therapy, respiratory instrumentation and manipulations, dialysis, orsurgery (18, 19,39,70). Thus, it wasproposed thatreduced hostdefenses andinteraction withother bacterial species, rather thantheexpression of specific bacterial virulence factors (49), arethefactors responsible foropportunistic infections caused byAcinetobacter species. Acinetobacter species areable tosurvive underrestricted nutrient conditions, suchasthose imposed bythehost. Iron isoneoftheessential bacterial nutrients thatistightly controlled bythehost, through itschelation bythehighaffinity binding glycoproteins transferrin (TF)andlactoferrin (23). Thus,bacteria havedeveloped efficient ironuptake mechanisms thatallowthemtoscavenge ironfromthese hostproteins, either bydirect interaction withtheironprotein complexes (34) orbythesynthesis andsecretion of
A total of 29 strains of Brucella abortus, B. melitensis, B. suis, B. ovis, and B. neotomae were examined for growth and catechol production in a semisynthetic low-iron medium. All strains showed reduced growth yields and, quantitatively, production of catechols varied widely among the different strains with no relationship to species, biotypes, or serotypes of Brucella. No clear correlation between catechol production and growth under iron-limiting conditions was observed. The major catechol was identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and neither other iron-regulated catechols nor hydroxamate type compounds were detected when representative strains of B. abortus or B. melitensis were grown in tryptic soy broth in the presence of iron-sequestering agents.
Microcin E492 is a channel-forming bacteriocin that is found in two forms, namely, a posttranslationally modified form obtained by the covalent linkage of salmochelin-like molecules to serine 84 and an unmodified form. The production of modified microcin E492 requires the synthesis of enterochelin, which is subsequently glycosylated by MceC and converted into salmochelin. mceC mutants produced inactive microcin E492, and this phenotype was reversed either by complementation with iroB from Salmonella enterica or by the addition of exogenous salmochelin. Cyclic salmochelin uptake by Escherichia coli occurred mainly through the outer membrane catecholate siderophore receptor Fiu. The production of inactive microcin E492 by mutants in entB and entC was reverted by the addition of the end product of the respective mutated pathway (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and enterochelin/salmochelin, respectively), while mutants in entF did not produce active microcin E492 in the presence of enterochelin or salmochelin. The EntF adenylation domain was the only domain required for this microcin E492 maturation step. Inactivation of the enzymatic activity of this domain by site-directed mutagenesis did not prevent the synthesis of active microcin E492 in the presence of salmochelin, indicating that the adenylation activity is not essential for the function of EntF at this stage of microcin E492 maturation.
synthetase), andEntA(2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate dehydrogenase) catalyze theconversion ofchorismate, an intermediate ofaromatic aminoacidsynthesis, to 2,3dihydroxybenzoic acidthrough theintermediates isochorismateand2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid(41). LSerine and2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid aresubsequently activated andutilized toproduce enterobactin byan uncharacterized process thatrequires thepolypeptides EntD, EntE,EntF,andEntG.Ithasbeenproposed thatthese proteins forma multienzyme complex, enterochelin synthetase(15), although thespecific function ofeachenzyme has notbeenestablished. EntEisproposed tocatalyze an ATP-PPi exchange reaction thatresults intheactivation of
The present study examined the effect of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) on the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA), the products of salicylate trapping of hydroxyl free radicals, and glutamate release in the striatum during acute ischemia and reperfusion. Non-HBO rats (n = 8) were subjected to 1-h ischemia. Study rats (n = 8) were treated with HBO at 2.8 ATA for 1 h during ischemia. Artificial CSF solution containing 5 mM sodium salicylate was perfused at 1 microl/min. Samples were continuously collected at 15 min intervals and the levels of 2,3-DHBA, 2,5-DHBA, and glutamate were analyzed. The lesion volume was determined by TTC stain. Occlusion of the middle cerebral artery induced a significant increase in the levels of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA. A peak of approximately two and fourfold of baseline levels was reached at 45 min and was maintained at elevated levels during reperfusion. The level of glutamate increased approximately two times at 30 min during ischemia, continued to increase, and reached approximately three times baseline level during reperfusion. HBO significantly alleviated brain injury associated with decreased levels of 2,3-DHBA, 2,5-DHBA and glutamate. This study suggests that the decreased glutamate release and the reduced formation of hydroxyl free radicals might contribute to the neuroprotective effect of HBO.
Abstract Siderophores are small-molecule iron chelators that many bacteria synthesize and secrete in order to survive in iron-depleted environments. Biosynthesis of enterobactin, the Escherichia coli catecholate siderophore, requires adenylation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) by the cytoplasmic enzyme EntE. The DHB-AMP product is then transferred to the active site of holo -EntB subsequent to formation of an EntE–EntB complex. Here we investigate the binding of 2,3-DHB to EntE and how DHB binding affects EntE–EntB interaction. We overexpressed and purified recombinant forms of EntE and EntB with N-terminal hexahistidine tags ( H6 -EntE and H6 -EntB). Isothermal titration calorimetry showed that 2,3-DHB binds to H6 -EntE with a 1:1 stoichiometry and a K d of 7.4 μM. Fluorescence spectra revealed enhanced 2,3-DHB emission at 440 nm (λ ex = 280 nm) when bound to H6 -EntE due to fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between EntE intrinsic fluorophore donors and bound 2,3-DHB acceptor. A FRET signal was not observed when H6 -EntE was mixed with either 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid or 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The H6 -EntE–2,3-DHB FRET signal was quenched by H6 -EntB in a concentration-dependent manner. From these data, we were able to determine the EC 50 of EntE–EntB interaction to be approximately 1.5 μM. We also found by fluorescence and CD measurements that H6 -EntB can bind 2,3-DHB, resulting in conformational changes in the protein. Additional alterations in H6 -EntB near-UV and far-UV CD spectra were observed upon mixture with H6 -EntE and 2,3-DHB, suggesting that further conformational rearrangements occur in EntB upon interaction with substrate-loaded EntE. We also found that H6 -EntB as a bait protein pulled down a higher concentration of chromosomally expressed EntE in the presence of exogenous 2,3-DHB. Taken together, our results show that binding of 2,3-DHB to EntE and EntB primes these proteins for efficient complexation, thus facilitating direct channeling of the siderophore precursor 2,3-DHB-AMP.
Different clinical isolates of Acinetobacter baumannii, typed by plasmid profile, were able to grow in iron-chelated medium by secreting iron-regulated siderophores. This iron-scavenging phenotype was associated with the production of iron-repressible catechol. Siderophore utilization bioassays showed the presence of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the growth medium, and neither enterobactin nor aerobactin was detected in culture supernatants obtained under iron-deficient conditions. Images
The most widely accepted concept of oxidative damage centers on the formation of hydroxyl radical (*OH) which has an extremely short-life and is the major damaging free radical. It was suggested that methamphetamine (METH) toxicity is mediated via production of *OH, as measured by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). In this study we compared the effects of local caudate nucleus perfusion of METH with systemic administration of METH on *OH generation in relation to DA release. Local perfusion of METH (5 mM, 140 min) induced a higher level of dopamine (DA) release compared to the first METH injection (10 mg/kg, 3 times, i.p.). No significant correlation was found between changes in extracellular DA levels and *OH generation when perfusing METH locally; however, both increased after systemic METH administration.
Five 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives 1 – 5 were used as starting materials to obtain the corresponding methyl and ethyl esters. Those were applied as ligands in the hierarchical self-assembly of lithium-bridged dinuclear titanium(IV) complexes 1a–4a, 1b–3b, and 5b. The equilibria between the mononuclear triscatecholate complexes (monomer) and the dinuclear helicates (dimer) were observed by 1H NMR spectroscopy in [D6]DMSO and [D4]MeOH at room temperature.
Running title: Efficient EntE-EntB interaction requires 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 2
The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript: 2,3-DHB: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 2,5-DHB: 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 3,5-DHB: 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid; AMP: adenosine 
The present study examined the mechanisms by which 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces long-term neurotoxicity of striatal dopamine neurones in mice and the protective action of the dopamine uptake inhibitor GBR 12909. MDMA (30 mg/kg, i.p.), given three times at 3-h intervals, produced a rapid increase in striatal dopamine release measured by in vivo microdialysis (maximum increase to 380 +/- 64% of baseline). This increase was enhanced to 576 +/- 109% of baseline by GBR 12909 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) administered 30 min before each dose of MDMA, supporting the contention that MDMA enters the terminal by diffusion and not via the dopamine uptake site. This, in addition to the fact that perfusion of the probe with a low Ca(2+) medium inhibited the MDMA-induced increase in extracellular dopamine, indicates that the neurotransmitter may be released by a Ca(2+) -dependent mechanism not related to the dopamine transporter. MDMA (30 mg/kg x 3) increased the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) from salicylic acid perfused through a probe implanted in the striatum, indicating that MDMA increased free radical formation. GBR 12909 pre-treatment attenuated the MDMA-induced increase in 2,3-DHBA formation by approximately 50%, but had no significant intrinsic radical trapping activity. MDMA administration increased lipid peroxidation in striatal synaptosomes, an effect reduced by approximately 60% by GBR 12909 pre-treatment. GBR 12909 did not modify the MDMA-induced changes in body temperature. These data suggest that MDMA-induced toxicity of dopamine neurones in mice results from free radical formation which in turn induces an oxidative stress process. The data also indicate that the free radical formation is probably not associated with the MDMA-induced dopamine release and that MDMA does not induce dopamine release via an action at the dopamine transporter.
Salicylic acid (SA) plays a crucial role in plant innate immunity. The deployment of SA-associated immune responses is primarily affected by SA concentration, which is determined by a balance between SA biosynthesis and catabolism. However, the mechanisms regulating SA homeostasis are poorly understood. In this study, we characterized a unique UDP-glycosyltransferase, UGT76D1, which plays an important role in SA homeostasis and associated immune responses in Arabidopsis ( Arabidopsis thaliana ). Expression of UGT76D1 was induced by treatment with both the pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato ( Pst ) DC3000 and SA. Overexpression of UGT76D1 resulted in high SA accumulation, significant up-regulation of pathogen-related genes, and a hypersensitive response (HR)-like lesion mimic phenotype. This HR-like phenotype was not observed following UGT76D1 overexpression in SA-deficient NahG transgenic or sid2 plants, suggesting that the phenotype is SA dependent. Biochemical assays showed that UGT76D1 glycosylated 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA), the major catabolic forms of SA, to their Glc and Xyl conjugates in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, in a mutant background blocked in the formation of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA, UGT76D1 overexpression did not cause a HR-like lesion mimic phenotype. Following infection with Pst DC3000, UGT76D1 knockout mutants displayed a delayed immune response, with reduced levels of DHBA glycosides and SA, and down-regulated SA synthase expression. By contrast, UGT76D1 overexpression lines showed an enhanced immune response and increased SA biosynthesis before and after pathogen infection. Thus, we propose that UGT76D1 plays an important role in SA homeostasis and plant immune responses by facilitating glycosylation of dihydroxybenzoic acids.
A comparative study of the generation of hydroxyl radicals (OH*) in the hypertrophic myocardium of SHR-SP rats (n = 8) and in the myocardium of WKY (n = 5) and Wistar (n = 12) rats was performed using the microdialysis technique. The experiments were carried out on anesthetized open-chest male rats (ketamine intraperitoneally, 10 mg/kg) with artificial ventilation. The amount of OH* produced was estimated by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection using as a marker 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), a product of the reaction of the hydroxyl radical with salicylic acid added to the perfusate. The quantity of 2,3-DHBA in the dialysate was estimated by the external standard method and expressed in percent of the 2,3-DHBA concentration in the perfusion fluid. The mean baseline value of 2,3-DHBA in dialysate samples in SHR-SP rats (157 +/- 22%, n = 8) was significantly higher than in Wistar (90 +/- 15%, n = 12, p = 0.0001) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (106 +/- 12%, n = 5, p = 0.005). The basal 2,3-DHBA level in SHR-SP rats was positively correlated (r = 0.831, n = 7, p < 0.05) with the degree of hypertrophy of the left ventricle expressed as the ratio of the left ventricle weight to the body weight. The data presented demonstrate that the hypertrophy of the left ventricle in SHR-SP rats is accompanied by the elevation of the level of free oxygen radicals.
The present study examined the mechanisms by which 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces long-term neurotoxicity of striatal dopamine neurones in mice and the protective action of the dopamine uptake inhibitor GBR 12909. MDMA (30 mg/kg, i.p.), given three times at 3-h intervals, produced a rapid increase in striatal dopamine release measured by in vivo microdialysis (maximum increase to 380 ± 64% of baseline). This increase was enhanced to 576 ± 109% of baseline by GBR 12909 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) administered 30 min before each dose of MDMA, supporting the contention that MDMA enters the terminal by diffusion and not via the dopamine uptake site. This, in addition to the fact that perfusion of the probe with a low Ca 2+ medium inhibited the MDMA-induced increase in extracellular dopamine, indicates that the neurotransmitter may be released by a Ca 2+ -dependent mechanism not related to the dopamine transporter. MDMA (30 mg/kg · 3) increased the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) from salicylic acid perfused through a probe implanted in the striatum, indicating that MDMA increased free radical formation. GBR 12909 pre-treatment attenuated the MDMA-induced increase in 2,3-DHBA formation by approximately 50%, but had no significant intrinsic radical trapping activity. MDMA administration increased lipid peroxidation in striatal synaptosomes, an effect reduced by approximately 60% by GBR 12909 pre-treatment. GBR 12909 did not modify the MDMA-induced changes in body temperature. These data suggest that MDMA-induced toxicity of dopamine neurones in mice results from free radical formation which in turn induces an oxidative stress process. The data also indicate that the free radical formation is probably not associated with the MDMA-induced dopamine release and that MDMA does not induce dopamine release via an action at the dopamine transporter.
Phenolic acids act as primary antioxidants, exhibiting antioxidative potential by donating a hydrogen atom for breaking the free radical chain [7] . The molecular structure (position and number of hydroxyl groups) of phenolic acids has a considerable effect on their antioxidative properties. Phenolic acids with two (protocatechuic acid -3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; caffeic acid -3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid) and more hydroxyl groups in a molecule (gallic acid -3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid) are more effective antioxidants than phenolic acids with only one hydroxyl group (3-or 4-hydroxybenzoic acid). The position of hydroxyl groups is also important, for example, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid has lower antioxidant activity than 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Methylene group (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid) or ethylene group (caffeic acid) inserted between a phenyl ring and carboxylic group brings about the significant changes in antioxidant activity [8] . Derivatives of benzoic acid ( p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillic, syringic, protocatechuic acid) have weaker antioxidant properties than the corresponding analogs of cinnamic acid ( p-coumaric, ferulic, sinapic, caffeic acid) [9] .
Palatal primordia of day-12.5 ICR mouse fetuses were cultured in a chemically-defined serumless medium by a suspension culture technique, and the developmental toxicity of aspirin and its metabolites on in vitro palatogenesis was studied. Explanted fetal palates were exposed in vitro for 72 hr to 0.5-2 mM aspirin (ASP), 0.25-2 mM salicylic acid (SA), 0.5-2 mM salicyluric acid (SUA), 1–2 mM 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3DHB), or 1–2 mM 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5DHB). After 72 hr culture, ASP at 2 mM and SA at 0.25 mM inhibited the growth and fusion of palatal shelves, and SUA at 1 mM prevented palatal fusion. On the other hand, 3DHB and 5DHB did not exert any significant toxic effects on cultured palates at concentrations up to 2 mM. Judging from the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50), SA (IC50= 0.9 mM) was the most toxic of the 5 compounds tested, with a decreasing order of ASP (IC50= 1.5 mM), SUA (IC50= 1.6 mM), and DHBs (IC50= over 2 mM for both 3DHB and 5DHB). With respect to developmental toxicity, cultured fetal mouse palates showed the susceptibility to aspirin and its metabolites which is intermediate between the susceptibility of rat embryos in vivo and that of postimplantation rat embryos cultured in vitro. The significance of fetal organ culture for evaluating developmental toxicity of chemicals is also discussed.
Amphetamine-induced hydroxyl radical formation in the striatum of rats was investigated in this study. With the utilization of the microdialysis and HPLC-ECD, the striatal dopamine (DA) release and the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), derived from the reaction of hydroxyl radicals (.OH) and salicylate in perfusion, were monitored and detected during desipramine and/or amphetamine (AMPH) administration. Our data revealed that after desipramine treatment AMPH injections not only amplified striatal DA release and 2,3-DHBA formation, but also intensified the stereotyped behaviors induced by AMPH. Furthermore, we discovered that alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (alpha-MT) pretreatment prevented the onset of the above responses. In desipramine-treated rats, the tissue homogenization study demonstrated that a single dose of AMPH produced long-term depletion of striatal DA; this was not seen in saline-treated rats. Moreover, striatal DA depletion could be lessened by pretreatment with mannitol, a .OH scavenger. These results indicate that AMPH-induced striatal .OH formation might be DA-related in desipramine-treated rats, and suggest that .OH formation might be correlated with AMPH-induced neurodegeneration.
Shigella flexneri SFL124, with a deletion encompassing all, or nearly all, of the coding sequence of gene aroD was obtained after selection on a fusaric acid medium supplemented with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid for tetracycline-sensitive mutants of S. flexneri SFL114 which is an aroD::Tn10 transductant. Two of 20 tetracycline-sensitive mutants tested in colony hybridization with a 32P-labelled DNA probe of approximately 1400 base pairs (comprising all except the 75 N-terminal base pairs of the coding region of gene aroD) did not hybridize. The selected mutant SFL124 is Congo-red positive, invades and shows a limited multiplication in HeLa cells and does not cause keratoconjunctivitis in guinea-pigs. It is well tolerated by Macaca fascicularis monkeys, is excreted for up to 4 days, elicits a slight inflammatory reaction in the colonic mucosa, stimulates significant secretory IgA responses in the intestine and serum IgA and IgA responses against the S. flexneri cell envelope lipopolysaccharide. The immune response conferred a complete protection against challenge with 1 × 1011 (equivalent to a 100 LD50 dose) live S. flexneri SFL1.
A. 2-sulphobenzoic acid-degrading bacterium, Pseudomonas sp. strain SB(W), was isolated from creosote-contaminated soil. It used this compound as its sole carbon, sulphur and energy source, and gave a nearly stoichiometric release of sulphate from 2-sulphobenzoic acid. It did not grow on 3- or 4- sulphobenzoic acids. Isolate SB(W) produced two transient metabolites. The first to appear, and the more abundant metabolite, was identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The second metabolite was identified as salicylic acid. Both of these compounds served as growth substrates for the isolate.
Abstract The formation of free hydroxyl radical ( OH) in oxygen transfer reactions at PbO 2 electrodes and the reaction between the electrochemically produced OH and salicylic acid (SA) were studied by cyclic voltammetry and capillary electrophoresis-amperometric detection (CZE-AD) in this paper. Experiments showed that OH was formed in the potential range of 1.0–1.4 V corresponding to the anodic discharge of H 2 O at the PbO 2 electrode, while this phenomenon was not obvious at the Pt electrode. Optimum CZE-AD conditions for indirect determination of OH were explored. It was also found that when salicylic acid was used to trap OH produced on the PbO 2 electrode surface, the amount of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid produced is much more than that of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. This phenomenon is explained by the proposal that SA first forms an active aromatic radical on the PbO 2 electrode surface before trapping OH, where OH performs a stronger preference in attacking at the 5-position than for attacking at the 3-position of the aromatic radical.
Abstract Salicylates are metabolized in vivo to hydroxylated compounds, including 2,3-dihydroxy-benzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (gentisic acid). The present study hypothesized that activated neutrophils represent one pathway for salicylate hydroxylation. Human neutrophils were incubated in medium containing 10 mM salicylate and stimulated with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) for 1 hr. The cell-free supernatant fractions were analyzed by HPLC. Neutrophils (1 × 10 6 cells) produced 55 ± 11 ng of gentisic acid. Neutrophils also produced smaller quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Antioxidant inhibitor experiments indicated that superoxide dismutase (SOD), heme protein inhibitors, and glutathione blocked gentisic acid formation, whereas catalase, mannitol, and deferoxamine failed to inhibit. Experiments with the reagent hypochlorous acid (HOCl) and the model myeloperoxidase (MPO) enzyme system did not support a role for the MPO pathway in gentisic acid formation. These findings demonstrate that activated neutrophils can hydroxylate salicylate by an unknown pathway. This pathway may contribute to the increased recovery of hydroxylated salicylates in patients with inflammatory disorders.
Abstract Propiconazole induces hepatocellular carcinomas and hepatocellular adenomas in mice and promotes liver tumors in rats. Transcriptional, proteomic, metabolomic and biochemical studies of hepatic tissues from mice treated with propiconazole under the conditions of the chronic bioassay indicated that propiconazole induced oxidative stress. Here we sought to identify the source of the reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by propiconazole using both AML12 immortalized mouse hepatocytes in culture and liver tissues from mice. We also sought to further characterize the nature and effects of ROS formation induced by propiconazole treatment in mouse liver. ROS was induced in AML12 cells by propiconazole as measured by fluorescence detection and its formation was ameliorated by N-acetylcysteine. Propiconazole induced glutathione-S-transferase (GSTα) protein levels and increased the levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in AML12 cells. The TBARS levels were decreased by diphenylene iodonium chloride (DPIC), a cytochrome P450 (CYP) reductase inhibitor revealing the role of CYPs in ROS generation. It has been previously reported that Cyp2b and Cyp3a proteins were induced in mouse liver by propiconazole and that Cyp2b and Cyp3a proteins undergo uncoupling of their CYP catalytic cycle releasing ROS. Therefore, salicylic acid hydroxylation was used as probe for ROS formation using microsomes from mice treated with propiconazole. These studies showed that levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (an ROS derived metabolite) were decreased by ketoconazole, melatonin and DPIC. In vivo, propiconazole increased hepatic malondialdehyde levels and GSTα protein levels and had no effect on hepatic catalase or superoxide dismutase activities. Based on these observations we conclude that propiconazole induces ROS in mouse liver by increasing CYP protein levels leading to increased ROS levels. Our data also suggest that propiconazole induces the hydroxyl radical as a major ROS form.
Likewise to the above role for bees, iron is also a limiting factor for growth of aerobic bacteria. In host-pathogen interactions it often plays a crucial role because pathogen and host both compete for the scarce Fe 3+ ions. To this end, many pathogenic bacteria produce and secrete high-affinity small molecule iron chelators, termed siderophores, which serve as iron scavengers to meet iron limitation by sequestering iron from the host. These low molecular weight iron chelators [29, 30] according to their functional groups are assigned to three types: catecholates, a-hydroxy carbolates, and hydroxamates [31, 32] . The most common siderophore in Gram positive bacteria is the catechol bacillibactin, produced by Bacillus subtilis, B. cereus, B. anthracis, B. thuringiensis and B. amyloliquefaciens. [33] [34] [35] . Other catechol type siderophores are paenibactin produced by Paenibacillus elgii [36] and the B. anthracis petrobactin [37] . While bacillibactin and paenibactin contain 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), petrobactin contains the unusual 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as chelating subunit.
BACKGROUND ::: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of memantine on brain ischemia. Because we can measure nitric oxide (NO) production and hydroxyl radical metabolism continuously, we investigated the effect of memantine on NO production and hydroxyl radical metabolism in cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Memantine (25 µmol/kg) was administered intraperitoneally to 6 C57BL/6 mice 30 minutes before ischemia. Seven additional mice received no injection (controls). NO production and hydroxyl radical metabolism were continuously monitored using bilateral striatal microdialysis in vivo. Hydroxyl radical formation was monitored using the salicylate trapping method. Forebrain ischemia was produced in all mice by occluding the common carotid artery bilaterally for 10 minutes. Levels of the NO metabolites nitrite (NO2-) and nitrate (NO3-) were determined using the Griess reaction. Survival rates of hippocampal CA1 neurons were calculated and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG)-immunopositive cells were counted to evaluate the oxidative stress in hippocampal CA1 neurons 72 hours after the start of reperfusion. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The regional cerebral blood flow was significantly higher in the memantine group than in the control group after reperfusion. Furthermore, the level of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was significantly lower in the memantine group than in the control group during ischemia and reperfusion. Levels of NO2- and NO3- did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Although survival rates in the CA1 did not differ significantly, there were fewer 8-OHdG-immunopositive cells in animals that had received memantine than in control animals. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: These data suggest that memantine exerts partially neuroprotective effects against cerebral ischemic injury.
Abstract The iron-deficient culture supernatant of a soil bacterial strain identified as Erwinia sp. was analyzed using a new high-resolution polyamide thin layer chromatography (TLC) and a silica TLC. The results showed both TLC methods were very effective for separating simple catechol compounds such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and catechol. However, in the analysis of more complicated catechol compounds or true catechol-type siderophores (conjugates of 2,3-DHBA and amino acids), the polyamide TLC had the higher resolution. Polyamide TLC analysis showed that strain S1 produced three distinct catechol-type siderophores.
1,2-Dihydroxybenzene, 2,3-dihydroxytoluene, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-hydroxyacetophenone, 3,8-dihydroxy-2-methylchromone (I), and its precursor 6,7,8,8a-tetrahydro-3,8a-dihydroxy-2-methyl-8-oxobenzopyrone (II) were obtained by reaction of D-glucuronic acid in slightly acidic aqueous solution (the last three products also from D-xylose).
Ensaculin interacts with various neurotransmitter systems (e.g., dopaminergic, serotoninergic, glutamatergic) and was originally designed for the treatment of dementia. In the present study Ensaculin was tested for its possible reduction of glutamate-induced hydroxyl free radical formation in vivo. The microdialysis experiment was carried out in non-anaesthetized Wistar rats, which were implanted with a microdialysis probe into the striatum. Salicylate (10 nmol/2 microl/min) was incorporated into the perfusion fluid to measure indirectly hydroxyl radicals indicated by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) formation. After baseline recording, glutamate (100 or 500 nmol/2 microl/min) was perfused through the microdialysis probe (CMA 12, 4 mm, flow rate 2 microl/min). Ensaculin (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg), MK-801 (1 mg/kg) or saline was injected i.p. 20 min after the onset of glutamate perfusion (500 nmol/2 microl/min). Glutamate (100 nmol/2 microl/min) and (500 nmol/2 microl/min) perfusion produced a 2.6- and 17-fold increase of 2,3-DHBA, respectively. Treatment with Ensaculin (1 and 10 mg/kg i.p. ) significantly antagonized the formation of 2,3-DHBA, to values of 60.5% and 56.7% of control levels, respectively. In comparison, MK-801 attenuated 2,3-DHBA levels, to values of 65.8% compared to control values. Ensaculin may be useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders associated with elevated hydroxyl free radicals and excitotoxicity.
Brucella spp. are gram-negative intracellular facultative pathogens that are known to produce 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), a catechol siderophore that is essential for full virulence in the natural host. The mechanism of DHBA entry into Brucella and other gram-negative bacteria is poorly understood. Using mini-Tn5Kmcat mutagenesis, we created a transposon library of Brucella melitensis 16M and isolated 32 mutants with a defect in iron acquisition or assimilation. Three of these transposon mutants are deficient in utilization of DHBA. Analysis of these three mutants indicated that the ExbB, DstC, and DugA proteins are required for optimal assimilation of DHBA and/or citrate. ExbB is part of the Ton complex, and DstC is a permease homologue of an iron(III) ABC transporter; in gram-negative bacteria these two complexes are involved in the uptake of iron through the outer and inner membranes, respectively. DugA is a new partner in iron utilization that exhibits homology with the bacterial conserved GTPase YchF. Based on this homology, DugA could have a putative regulatory function in iron assimilation in Brucella. None of the three mutants was attenuated in cellular models or in the mouse model of infection, which is consistent with the previous suggestion that DHBA utilization is not required in these models.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase, the last enzyme in the fungal metabolism of indole to catechol, catalyzes the non-oxidative decarboxylation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to catechol. Unlike most other decarboxylases, this enzyme does not require a cofactor, underlining the importance of active-site residues in the reaction mechanism. Earlier studies from this laboratory [Kamath, A. V., Appaji Rao, N. & Vaidyanathan, C. S. (1989) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 165, 20-26], have shown that the sulfhydryl agent N-ethylmaleimide (MalNEt) inactivated the enzyme by modifying a single class of cysteine residues and that this inactivation was prevented in the presence of salicylate, a substrate analogue. In the present study, this essential cysteine residue has been identified by specific labelling with [14C]-MalNEt using the differential labelling technique. The stoichiometry of incorporation of [14C]MalNEt was approximately one/subunit of the homotetrameric protein. The peptide bearing this reactive cysteine residue was isolated by tryptic digestion of the differentially labelled enzyme and subsequent reverse-phase chromatography of the peptide mixture. The sequence of the major radioactive peptide that was identified to be the active-site peptide, was LLGLAETCK. A search for sequences similar to this active-site peptide indicated that this sequence was probably unique to the decarboxylase under study. A partial primary structure map constructed from the sequences of peptides derived from enzymic cleavage of the protein using endoproteinase Glu-C and trypsin did not share any significant sequence similarity with sequences reported in the database, again suggesting the uniqueness of the enzyme. This is the first report on the active-site peptide and the partial primary structure of a non-oxidative decarboxylase catalyzing the removal of a carboxyl group from an aromatic nucleus.
The EntE enzyme, involved in the synthesis of the iron siderophore enterobactin, catalyzes the adenylation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, followed by its transfer to the phosphopantetheine arm of holo-EntB, an aryl carrier protein. In the absence of EntB, EntE catalyzes the formation of Ap(4)A, a molecule that is implicated in regulating cell division during oxidative stress. We propose that the expression of EntE during iron starvation produces Ap(4)A to slow growth until intracellular iron stores can be restored.
A year-long double-blind study of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) given orally at a dose of 25 mg/kg four times per day was undertaken in 15 patients with beta-thalassemia major. 2,3-DHB and placebo (mannitol) were tolerated to an equal degree and there were no signs of drug toxicity at the end of 1 year. Efficacy in terms of retardation of iron accumulation could be documented using serial liver biopsies, serum ferritin determinations, or clinical laboratory assessment. Serum iron values increased, as did the iron binding capacity, in the group receiving 2,3-DHB. The increase in iron binding capacity was due to drug interference with the method of determination. Because of the greater efficacy of slow infusions of desferrioxamine in chelating iron when administered slowly, the clinic has shifted its emphasis toward further evaluation of that compound. Nevertheless, in view of the minimal toxicity of 2,3-DHB, further work appears warranted to define its role in the treatment of iron-overload.
PURPOSE ::: Ischemic insults in the optic nerve are relatively common ocular disorders. This study provides quantitative data on the generation of hydroxyl radicals in the anterior optic nerve of the cat during the early reperfusion phase following 90 minutes of ischemia. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Cats were injected intravenously with sodium salicylate that by acting as an hydroxyl radical trap, forms 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). Ischemia was achieved by intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation via cannulation of the anterior chamber. Ischemia was maintained for 60 minutes in 6 eyes and 90 minutes in 12 eyes, followed by 5 minutes of reperfusion. In an additional 6 eyes, ischemia was maintained for 90 minutes without reperfusion. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: After 90 minutes of ischemia and reperfusion, mean normalized levels of 2,3-DHBA (ie, ng 2,3-DHBA/microg salicylate/mg protein) that represent the levels of hydroxyl radicals were 2.47 times (at least) higher in the anterior optic nerves than in the fellow sham-operated controls (P = 0.03). These levels were 3.9 times (at least) greater than in the corresponding levels after 90 minutes of ischemia without reperfusion (P= 0.005). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: This study provides a quantitative analysis and evidence for the generation of hydroxyl radicals in the optic nerve of the cat following transient ischemia. A quantitative analysis may provide an important tool to detect even relatively small levels of free radicals in the tissues, and to evaluate the relative efficacy of various therapeutic agents in the inhibition of free radical generation following ischemia and reperfusion.
Abstract We examined the effect of N G -nitro- l -arginine methyl ester ( l -NAME), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, on extracellular potassium ion concentration ([K + ] o )-enhanced hydroxyl radical ( · OH) generation due to 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP + ) was examined in the rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer’s solution (0.5 nmol/μl per min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of · OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Induction of KCl (20, 70 and 140 mM) increased MPP + -induced · OH formation trapped as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in a concentration dependent manner. However, the application of l -NAME (5 mg/kg i.v.) abolished the [K + ] o depolarization-induced · OH formation with MPP + . Dopamine (DA; 10 μM) also increased the levels of DHBA due to MPP + . However, the effect of DA after application of l -NAME did not change the levels of DHBA. On the other hand, the application of allopurinol (20 mg/kg i.v., 30 min prior to study), a xanthine oxidase (XO) inhibitor was abolished the both [K + ] o - and DA-induced · OH generation. Moreover, when iron(II) was administered to MPP + then [K + ] o (70 mM)-pretreated animals, a marked increase in the level of DHBA. However, when corresponding experiments were performed with l -NAME-pretreated animals, the same results were obtained. Therefore, NOS activation may be no relation to Fenton-type reaction via [K + ] o depolarization-induced · OH generation. The present results suggest that [K + ] o -induced depolarization augmented MPP + -induced · OH formation by enhancing NO synthesis.
Sixteen antioxidative active compounds isolated from the EtOAc layer of MeOH extracts of kochujang, Korean fermented red pepper paste, were structurally elucidated as fumaric acid, methyl succinate, succinic acid furan-2-yl ester methyl ester (gochujangate, a novel compound), 2-hydroxy-3-phenylpropanoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 6,7-dihydroxy-2H-chromen-2-one (esculetin), caffeic acid, cis-p-coumaric acid, trans-p-coumaric acid, daidzin, genistin, apigenin 7-O-β-D-apiofuranosyl(1→2)-β-D-glucopyranoside, apigenin 7-O-β-Dglucopyranoside, and quercetin 3-O-α-L-rhamnopyranoside by mass spectrometry (MS) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments. These compounds were analyzed for the first time as antioxidants from kochujang.
The equilibrium reactions of yttrium(III) ion with dihydroxybenzoic acids (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA)) (H(3)L) were investigated in aqueous solution by means of potentiometric and spectroscopic methods, in 0.1 mol.l(-1) ionic strength medium at 25 degrees C. The stability constants are reported for YL, YL(HL)(2-) and YL(2)(3-)- type mononuclear complexes. 2,3-DHBA can bind Y(III) ion strongly and the salicylate mode is effective over the acidic pH range. But in higher pH range, 2,3-DHBA and 3,4-DHBA act more efficiently through catecholate groups. The complexes of 2,3-DHBA are more stable than the complexes of 3,4-DHBA.
The data presented here indicate that the colicin B inhibitor is the iron chelating compound enterochelin (6), also known as enterobactin (24), the cyclic trimer of 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoylserine (DHBS: 18). Brot et al. (2) described an enzymatic activity in E. coli that synthesizes DHBS from serine, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), and adenosine 5'-triphosphate. This activity is repressed by exogePresent address:
The invivo conversion of radioactive tryptophan to anthranilic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by submerged cultures of Clavicepspaspali was shown by Groeger and his co-workers (1965). More recently, Subba Rao etal. (1967a) reported that washed mycelial felts of Aspergillusniger incorporate the radioactivity from DL-tryptophan-C14 (benzene ring-labeled) into anthranilic acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol. However, the conversion of anthranilic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by cell-free preparations has not been demonstrated. In the present paper we report the demonstration of a soluble anthranilic acid hydroxylase from Aspergillusniger which is different from the anthranilic acid hydroxylases reported so far from microbes and higher plants.
Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is a well-known and widely-used analgesic. It is rapidly deacetylated to salicylic acid, which forms two hippuric acids—salicyluric acid and gentisuric acid—and two glucuronides. The oxidation of aspirin and salicylic acid has been reported with human liver microsomes, but data on individual cytochromes P450 involved in oxidation is lacking. In this study we monitored oxidation of these compounds by human liver microsomes and cytochrome P450 (P450) using UPLC with fluorescence detection. Microsomal oxidation of salicylic acid was much faster than aspirin. The two oxidation products were 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (gentisic acid, documented by its UV and mass spectrum) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Formation of neither product was inhibited by desferrioxamine, suggesting a lack of contribution of oxygen radicals under these conditions. Although more liphophilic, aspirin was oxidized less efficiently, primarily to the 2,5-dihydroxy product. Recombinant human P450s 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4 all catalyzed the 5-hydroxylation of salicylic acid. Inhibitor studies with human liver microsomes indicated that all six of the previously mentioned P450s could contribute to both the 5- and 3-hydroxylation of salicylic acid and that P450s 2A6 and 2B6 have contributions to 5-hydroxylation. Inhibitor studies indicated that the major human P450 involved in both 3- and 5-hydroxylation of salicylic acid is P450 2E1.
BACKGROUND ::: Reactive oxygen species are implicated in the aetiology of a range of human diseases and there is increasing interest in their role in the development of cancer. ::: ::: ::: AIM ::: To develop a suitable method for the detection of reactive oxygen species produced by the faecal matrix. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: A refined high performance liquid chromatography system for the detection of reactive oxygen species is described. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The method allows baseline separation of the products of hydroxyl radical attack on salicylic acid in the hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase system, namely 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and catechol. The increased efficiency and precision of the method has allowed a detailed evaluation of the dynamics of reactive oxygen species generation in the faecal matrix. The data show that the faecal matrix is capable of generating reactive oxygen species in abundance. This ability cannot be attributed to the bacteria present, but rather to a soluble component within the matrix. As yet, the nature of this soluble factor is not entirely clear but is likely to be a reducing agent. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The soluble nature of the promoting factor renders it amenable to absorption, and circumstances may exist in which either it comes into contact with either free or chelated iron in the colonocyte, leading to direct attack on cellular DNA, or else it initiates lipid peroxidation processes whereby membrane polyunsaturated fatty acids are attacked by reactive oxygen species propagating chain reactions leading to the generation of promutagenic lesions such as etheno based DNA adducts.
Since the introduction of Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption and Ionization (MALDI) in 1988 the application of MALDI mass spectrometry has become a vital research field. The method of analyte/matrix preparation plays a central role for achieving optimal performance in MALDI. -- In the first part of this work, a new method of preparing the samples to increase contaminant tolerance is described. While the solvent composition and matrices used in the "dried droplet" method have changed since MALDI was introduced, there has been little fundamental change in this protocol. The "dried droplet" method for MALDI MS is a simple one step process, but high concentrations of nonvolatile liquid, such as glycerol, urea, DMSO and other protein stabilizers, can reduce or eliminate the intensity of protein ion signals. Instead of using the one step process, we developed a three step process. The examples presented in this part of this thesis illustrate how analyses were improved as a result of the new sample preparation procedure. The sample films produced by the new method adhere firmly to the substrate, allowing easier washing of the film compared to the dried-droplet deposits. The films were more uniform than dried-droplet deposits with respect to ion production. The presence of non-proteinaceous material at high concentrations in the solution did not seriously affect ion production from these films. -- The basic difference between laser desorption/ionization and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization is that the laser radiation is directly absorbed by the analyte in the former case, while the matrix dominates energy absorption and the formation of ions in the latter. In the second part of this work, the influence of matrix concentration on analyte ion yield and the mass resolution of the molecular ion signals were investigated. MALDI time-of-flight mass spectra of protein mixed at different concentrations in each of gentisic acid, trans-α-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamic acid and sinapic acid matrices, were obtained. The results showed that the intensities of the analyte ion peaks increase gradually with an increase in concentration of matrix in solution and then decrease slightly as the matrix concentration continues to increase. The analysis of the spectra also showed that the molecular ion peaks are broadened, and the mass resolution decreases, as the matrix concentration increases. A proposed interpretation of these results is given based on two categories of matrix concentration effects: a physical effect involving energy deposition and redistribution processes, and a chemical effect involving co-crystallization of the matrix and analyte followed by photochemical ionization. -- Poor crystallization of a MALDI sample has a negative effect on its ability to generate ions. In the last part of this work a strategy was demonstrated to alleviate this problem. Certain amounts of impurities (or additives), present in solution during crystallization, have a pronounced effect on the crystallization process, in particular on the morphology of the deposited crystals. The technique of controlling crystal growth by additives was also discussed. The crystallization of gentisic acid mixed with its isomers and other benzoic acid derivatives was then investigated. The performance of the resulting crystals in MALDI MS was evaluated. The results showed that the admixture of gentisic acid with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid or 3-amino-2,5,6-trifluorobenzoic acid homogenized the crystal morphology, and consequently improved the MALDI MS performance.
Although compelling evidence exists on the ability of aspirin to treat colorectal cancer (CRC), and numerous theories and targets have been proposed, a consensus has not been reached regarding its mechanism of action. In this regard, a relatively unexplored area is the role played by aspirin metabolites 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) in its chemopreventive actions. In a previous study, we demonstrated that 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA inhibited CDK1 enzyme activity in vitro. The aim of the present study was to understand the effect of these metabolites on the enzyme activity of all CDKs involved in cell cycle regulation (CDKs 1, 2, 4 and 6) as well as their effect on clonal formation in three different cancer cell lines. Additionally, in silico studies were performed to determine the potential sites of interactions of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA with CDKs. We demonstrated that 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA inhibits CDK-1 enzyme activity beginning at 500 µM, while CDK2 and CDK4 activity was inhibited only at higher concentrations (>750 µM). 2,3-DHBA inhibited CDK6 enzyme activity from 250 µM, while 2,5-DHBA inhibited its activity >750 µM. Colony formation assays showed that 2,5-DHBA was highly effective in inhibiting clonal formation in HCT-116 and HT-29 CRC cell lines (250–500 µM), and in the MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line (~100 µM). In contrast 2,3-DHBA was effective only in MDA-MB-231 cells (~500 µM). Both aspirin and salicylic acid failed to inhibit all four CDKs and colony formation. Based on the present results, it is suggested that 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA may contribute to the chemopreventive properties of aspirin, possibly through the inhibition of CDKs. The present data and the proposed mechanisms should open new areas for future investigations.
PURPOSE: To obtain an optically protecting topical composition containing a specific chelating agent and useful for protecting the skin from a harmful effect caused by irradiation of ultraviolet rays such as sunburn, premature aging induced by the sunshine without preventing a sunburn response. CONSTITUTION: This optically protecting topical composition containing chelating agent includes a safe and optically protective amount, preferably 1-10wt.% of the chelating agent having at least 50% inhibiting rate of hydroxy radical formation acting on the iron catalyst in an in vitro solution radical test or having at least 20% reducing rate of the skin wrinkle grade in an in vivo mouth skin wrinkle formation test, and safe and optically effective amount of topical carrier. The chelating agent is represented by an aromatic amine (e.g. 2,2'- dipyridylamine), an aromatic hydroxy acid (e.g. 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid), etc. The chelating agent is preferably applied to the skin in 0.001-1.0mg/cm 2 , preferably 0.01-0.1mg/cm 2 . COPYRIGHT: (C)1989,JPO
The aim of this study was to determine whether fluvastatin, an inhibitor of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, can resist Cu (II)-induced hydroxyl radical generation (*OH) in the extracellular fluid of rat myocardium. Rats were anaesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol microL(-1) min(-1)) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in the myocardium. When Cu (II) (0, 10, 25 or 50 microM) was administered to 1 mM tyramine-pretreated rats, a marked elevation in the levels of 2,3-DHBA was found, indicating a positive linear correlation between Cu (II) and the increase in *OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA in the dialysate (r2 = 0.977). In the presence of fluvastatin (100 microM), a marked decrease in the levels of 2,3-DHBA was found. Corresponding experiments performed with iron (II) (0, 10, 25 or 50 microM), showed a marked elevation in the levels of 2,3-DHBA, indicating a positive linear correlation between iron (II) and the increase in *OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA in the dialysate (r2 = 0.986). However, in the presence of fluvastatin (100 microM) a small decrease in the level of 2,3-DHBA was found. The results show that iron (II) against LDL oxidation may be insensitive compared with Cu (II). Cu (II)-induced *OH formation may be reduced by inhibiting LDL with fluvastatin.
Engineered nanoparticles released into the environment may interact with natural organic matter (NOM). Surface complexation affects the surface potential, which in turn may lead to aggregation of the particles. Aggregation of synthetic TiO2 (anatase) nanoparticles in aqueous suspension was investigated at pH 2.8 as a function of time in the presence of various organic molecules and Suwannee River fulvic acid (SRFA), using dynamic light scattering (DLS) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Results showed that the average hydrodynamic diameter and ?-potential were dependent on both concentration and molecular structure of the organic molecule. Results were also compared with those of quantitative batch adsorption experiments. Further, a time study of the aggregation of TiO2 nanoparticles in the presence of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and SRFA, respectively, was performed in order to observe changes in ?-potential and particle size over a time period of 9 months. In the 2,3-DHBA-TiO2 system, ?-potentials decreased with time resulting in charge neutralization and/or inversion depending on ligand concentration. Aggregate sizes increased initially to the micrometer size range, followed by disaggregation after several months. No or very little interaction between SRFA and TiO2 occurred at the lowest concentrations tested. However, at the higher concentrations of SRFA, there was an increase in both aggregate size and the amount of SRFA adsorbed to the TiO2 surface. This was in correlation with the ?-potential that decreased with increased SRFA concentration, leading to destabilization of the system. These results stress the importance of performing studies over both short and long time periods to better understand and predict the long-term effects of nanoparticles in the environment.
INTRODUCTION ::: Analysis of catecholamines in small samples of urine is difficult and sensitive to stress. Current techniques require pooling of samples or expensive separation by double mass spectrometry. A method for extraction of unconjugated catecholamines in 20μL urine samples has been developed using alumina extraction prior to separation by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and electrochemical detection (ECD). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Three murine experiments tested the application of the procedure. In the first, collection occurred in the morning and evening prior to handling, and in the morning after three days of handling. In the second, passively obtained urine was compared to stressfully obtained urine in the same mice. Finally, basal collections were compared to urinary catecholamine levels 15 and 30min into novel cage stress. Urine was extracted alongside 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) internal standard via alumina and brought to pH 8.5 with tris buffer. The mixture underwent two wash steps for depuration and eluted with perchloric acid for analysis on HPLC with ECD. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: This novel extraction method using low amounts of urine yielded 48% recovery in the samples and 60% recovery in the standard extraction on average. With a signal to noise ratio of 3:1, the limit of detection (LOD) of a standard is 1.2pg/mL, which allows for the detection of 3.6pg/mL in urine or 72fg in a 20μL sample. Thus resting catecholamine levels are 216 times higher than the LOD. Unconjugated norepinephrine and epinephrine levels were significantly increased 15min after novel cage stress and epinephrine remained elevated after 30min, but did not show significant differences when comparing collection time, handling exposure, or specific collection technique. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION ::: The technique is an effective measure for sympathetic activity in micro samples, with a limit of detection in the attomole range for 20μL samples.
Siderophore of Aeromonas hydrophila(Ah) J-1 was purified from culture supernatant by polyamide column chromatography, eluted by double-distilled water, ethyl acetate precipitated, lyophilized, then the white powder was collected, and demonstrated by CAS and Arnow assay. The siderophore was phenolate, composed of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), lysine, glycine and tryptophan by HPLC. Being cultured iniron-deficient medium, the purified siderophore could stimulated the growth of Ah N9a which siderophore production is poorly positive and reverse the inhibition growth of EDDA. It suggested that siderophore could promote growth of bacteria and might play an important role in bacteria infection.
The iron chelator, deferoxamine, has demonstrated cytotoxicity against neuroblastoma cells. In this study we examined the in vitro antineuroblastoma activity of several potentially less expensive oral chelating agents. On a mole for mole basis, 1-hydroxypyridine-2-thionine (omadine) had 100 times the cytotoxicity of deferoxamine. 1,2-Dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one also caused demonstrable cell death but at considerably higher molar concentrations than those required for deferoxamine. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid had no effect on neuroblastoma cell viability over a range of concentrations. In contrast to the effect of both deferoxamine and 1,2-Dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, those due to omadine were permanent within 24 hours of incubation, were not significantly altered by the presence of ionic iron, and correlated with an increase in the percentage of cells in the S-G2-M phases of the cell cycle. On the basis of these in vitro studies, we believe that the use of omadine in particular and iron chelators in general, by themselves or as cell cycle-recruiting agents together with standard cell cycle specific drugs, is an approach to the treatment of cancer worth further investigation.
Abstract Engineered nanoparticles released into the environment may interact with natural organic matter (NOM). Surface complexation affects the surface potential, which in turn may lead to aggregation of the particles. Aggregation of synthetic TiO 2 (anatase) nanoparticles in aqueous suspension was investigated at pH 2.8 as a function of time in the presence of various organic molecules and Suwannee River fulvic acid (SRFA), using dynamic light scattering (DLS) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Results showed that the average hydrodynamic diameter and ζ-potential were dependent on both concentration and molecular structure of the organic molecule. Results were also compared with those of quantitative batch adsorption experiments. Further, a time study of the aggregation of TiO 2 nanoparticles in the presence of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and SRFA, respectively, was performed in order to observe changes in ζ-potential and particle size over a time period of 9 months. In the 2,3-DHBA-TiO 2 system, ζ-potentials decreased with time resulting in charge neutralization and/ or inversion depending on ligand concentration. Aggregate sizes increased initially to the micrometer size range, followed by disaggregation after several months. No or very little interaction between SRFA and TiO 2 occurred at the lowest concentrations tested. However, at the higher concentrations of SRFA, there was an increase in both aggregate size and the amount of SRFA adsorbed to the TiO 2 surface. This was in correlation with the ζ-potential that decreased with increased SRFA concentration, leading to destabilization of the system. These results stress the importance of performing studies over both short and long time periods to better understand and predict the long-term effects of nanoparticles in the environment.
A new siderophore named vulnibactin has been isolated from low iron cultures of Vibrio vulnificus, a human pathogen. The structure was established as N-[3-(2,3-dihydroxybenzamido)propyl]-1,3-bis[2-(2-hydroxy-phenyl)- trans-5 - methyl-2-oxazoline-4-carboxamido]propane by a combination of acid hydrolysis, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and positive fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry. Vulnibactin is characterized as containing one residue of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid as well as two residues of salicylic acid, both of which are involved in the formation of oxazoline rings with L-threonine bound to a norspermidine backbone. In addition, two other compounds with siderophore activity were purified and their structures were also determined. These two compounds provided further support for the structure of vulnibactin.
Experimental work demonstrates that polyhalogenated alkanes (PHAs) are rapidly reduced in aqueous solutions containing Fe(II) complexes with organic ligands that possess either catechol or organothiol Lewis base groups in their structure and are representative of extracellular ligands and metal-complexing moieties within humic substances (tiron, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, thioglycolic acid, and 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid). In solutions containing Fe(II)-tiron complexes, 1,1,1-trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCA) is reduced quantitativelyto acetaldehyde, a product previously reported for reactions with Cr(II), but not with Fe-based reductants. Observed pseudo-first-order rate constants for 1,1,1-TCA reduction by Fe(II)-organic complexes (k'(obs)) generally increase with increasing pH and ligand concentration when Fe(II) concentration is fixed. For the Fe(II)-tiron system, k'(obs) is linearly correlated with the concentration of the 1:2 Fe(II)-tiron complex (FeL2(6-)), and kinetic trends can be described by k'(obs) = k(FeL2)6- [FeL2(6-)], where k(FeL2)6- is the bimolecular rate constant for PHA reaction with the 1:2 Fe(II)-tiron complex. Comparing reaction rates for 14 polyhalogenated ethanes and methanes reveals linear free energy relationships (LFERs) with molecular descriptors for PHA reduction (D(R-X'), deltaG(0'), and E(LUMO)), with the strongest correlation being obtained using carbon-halogen bond dissociation energies, D(R-X'). The collective experimental results are consistent with a dissociative one-electron transfer process occurring during the rate-limiting step.
Salicylic acid and its putative biosynthetic precursors were assayed isocratically by RP-HPLC with UV detection at 280 nm. Optimum resolution was provided by an HPLC mobile phase consisting of MeOH-1% aqueous HOAc (40:60, v/v), at pH 4. Furthermore, for the analysis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in Catharanthus roseus cell cultures after elicitation, a mobile phase consisting of acetonitrile-1% aqueous HCOOH containing 0.25% trichloroacetic acid (1:5, v/v), at pH 2, was used. The recovery for the free form of 2,3-DHBA was about 80% after a one-step extraction of the cells. The detection limit of 2,3-DHBA was 3 microg by using saligenin as an internal standard.
Eight compounds were isolated from the ethanol extract of G. algida Pall. the structure of these compounds were identified as: oleic acid (1), linoleic acid (2), octacosanoic acid (3), β-sitosterol (4), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (5), n-butyl isobutyl phthalate (6), daucosterol (7), 5,8-dimethoxy furocoumarin (8). These structures were identified by NMR MS IR and other spectroscopic techniques. These compounds were isolated from this plant for the first time.
Abstract Background The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of edaravone on nitric oxide (NO) production, hydroxyl radical (OH−) metabolism, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) expression during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. Methods Edaravone (3 mg/kg) was administered intravenously to 14 C57BL/6 mice just before reperfusion. Eleven additional mice received saline (controls). NO production and OH− metabolism were continuously monitored using bilateral striatal in vivo microdialysis. OH− formation was monitored using the salicylate trapping method. Forebrain ischemia was produced in all mice by bilateral occlusion of the common carotid artery for 10 minutes. Levels of NO metabolites, nitrite (NO2−) and nitrate (NO3−), were determined using the Griess reaction. Brain sections were immunostained with an anti-nNOS antibody and the fractional area density of nNOS-immunoreactive pixels to total pixels determined. Results Blood pressure and regional cerebral blood flow were not significantly different between the edaravone and control groups. The levels of NO2− did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. The level of NO3− was significantly higher in the edaravone group compared with the control group after reperfusion. 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels were lower in the edaravone group compared with those in the control group after reperfusion. Immunohistochemistry showed nNOS expression in the edaravone group to be significantly lower than that in the control group 96 hours after reperfusion. Conclusions These in vivo data indicate that edaravone may have a neuroprotective effect by reducing levels of OH− metabolites, increasing NO production and decreasing nNOS expression in brain cells.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid has been shown to be oxidized via the 3-oxoadipate pathway in the leaves of Tecoma stans. The formation of 2-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid, a muconolactone, 3-oxoadipic acid and carbon dioxide during its metabolism has been demonstrated using an extract of Tecoma leaves. The first reaction of the pathway, viz., the conversion of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate to 2-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid has been shown to be catalysed by an enzyme designated as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate 2,3-oxygenase. The enzyme has been partially purified and a few of its properties studied. The enzyme is very labile with a half-life of 3--4 h. It is maximally active with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate as the substrate and does not exhibit any activity with catechol, 4-methyl catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, etc. However, 2,3-dihydroxy-p-toluate and 2,3-dihydroxy-p-cumate are also oxidized by the enzyme by about 38% and 28% respectively, compared to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate. Sulfhydryl reagents inhibit the enzyme reaction and the inhibition can be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with the substrate. Substrate also affords protection to the enzyme against thermal inactivation. Sulfhydryl compounds strongly inhibit the reaction and the inhibition cannot be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with its substrates. Data on the effect of metal ions as well as metal chelating agents suggest that copper is the metal cofactor of the enzyme. Evidence is presented which suggests that iron may not be participating in the overall catalytic mechanism.
Abstract The long-term effect of d-amphetamine (AMPH) on the induction of oxidative stress was examined in vivo in the rat brain. In this study, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and malonaldehyde (MDA) were used as the index of the hydroxyl radical and lipid peroxidation, respectively. The levels of 2,3-DHBA, MDA and dopamine (DA) in striatal homogenates were examined 7 days following injection of a single large dose of AMPH (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.) in rats pretreated with desipramine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), an agent that inhibits the metabolism of AMPH. Our results showed that 2,3-DHBA and MDA levels were significantly increased by AMPH, whereas DA and its metabolites, DOPAC and HVA were depleted in the striatum. Pretreatment with the glutamate NMDA receptor subtype antagonist MK-801 (1 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated the increases of 2,3-DHBA and MDA, and provided partial protection against the long-lasting loss of DA produced by AMPH. Overall, the results demonstrate that AMPH could induce sustained production of free radical and oxidative damage, and lead to DA terminal degeneration in the striatum of the rat.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase, the last enzyme in the fungal metabolism of indole to catechol, catalyzes the non-oxidative decarboxylation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to catechol. Unlike most other decarboxylases, this enzyme does not require a cofactor, underlining the importance of active-site residues in the reaction mechanism. Earlier studies from this laboratory [Kamath, A. V., Appaji Rao, N. & Vaidyanathan, C. S. (1989) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 165, 20–26], have shown that the sulfhydryl agent N-ethylmaleimide (MalN Et) inactivated the enzyme by modifying a single class of cysteine residues and that this inactivation was prevented in the presence of salicylate, a substrate analogue. In the present study, this essential cysteine residue has been identified by specific labelling with [14C]-MalN Et using the differential labelling technique. The stoichiometry of incorporation of [14C]MalN Et was approximately one/subunit of the homotetrameric protein. The peptide bearing this reactive cysteine residue was isolated by tryptic digestion of the differentially labelled enzyme and subsequent reverse-phase chromatography of the peptide mixture. The sequence of the major radioactive peptide that was identified to be the active-site peptide, was LLGLAETCK. A search for sequences similar to this active-site peptide indicated that this sequence was probably unique to the decarboxylase under study. A partial primary structure map constructed from the sequences of peptides derived from enzymic cleavage of the protein using endoproteinase Glu-C and trypsin did not share any significant sequence similarity with sequences reported in the database, again suggesting the uniqueness of the enzyme. This is the first report on the active-site peptide and the partial primary structure of a non-oxidative decarboxylase catalyzing the removal of a carboxyl group from an aromatic nucleus.
In this case study the regioselective enzymatic carboxylation of 3,5-dihydroxytoluene (orcinol) using the nonoxidative 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase from Aspergillus oryzae (2,3-DHBD_Ao), followed by an adsorbent-based downstream approach, has been investigated. The product 2,6-dihydroxy-4-methylbenzoic acid (DHMBA) was herein purified by an adsorption–desorption cycle and subsequently obtained with purities >99% without a full elimination of the excess bicarbonate from its reaction solution. Ten adsorbent resins were studied in respect of their ability to recover the product from the reaction solution, whereas the strong anion exchange resin Dowex 1x2 in its chloride form showed affinities >99%, even at bicarbonate concentrations of >3 mol·L–1. Desorption from loaded resin was carried out by a 2 mol·L–1 HCl/acetone mixture, followed by product crystallization during acetone evaporation. This presented concept does not require a final column preparation step and improves the overall atom efficie...
Pasteurella multocida and Pasteurella haemolytica do not produce hydroxamate- or phenolate type siderophores. However, transport- and utilization systems could be detected for the well known siderophores ferrioxamine B, E, G, rhizoferrin and the intermediate 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by means of cross-feeding tests in both Pasteurella species. Enterobactin and ferrichrome did not feed any of the Pasteurella strains tested. Additionally, alpha-ketoacids and alpha-hydroxyacids such as pyruvic acid, alpha-hydroxyisovaleric acid and others acting as primary metabolites enabled growth of P. multocida and P. haemolytica under iron limitation.
Abstract The reaction of d -glucuronic acid in aqueous solutions of pH 3.5 and 4.5 at 96° yielded 2-furaidehyde ( 1 ), 2-furoic acid ( 12 ), 2,3-dihydroxy-2-cyclopentcn-l -one (reductic acid) ( 2 ), 1,2-dihydroxybenzene ( 7 ), 1,2,3-trihydroxybenzene ( 8 ), 2,3-dihydroxytoluene ( 10 ), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( 9 ), 2,3-dihydroxyacetophenone ( 11 ), 3,8-dihydroxy-2-methylchromo.le ( 3 ), 5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-3,5-dihydroxy-2-methyl-8oxobenzopyrone ( 4 ), and 3-acetyl-l-oxocyclohexane-2,3,6-trioI ( 18 ). The last two compounds were shown to be precursors of 3 and 11 , respectively. Two compounds of formula C 10 H 8 O 5 , ( 5, bd6 ) were also isolated. From the reaction of d -galacturonic acid at pH 4.5, most of the above compounds were isolated, but in lower yields, and from d -xylose, compounds 1,3,4,6, 10, 11 , and C 10 H 8 O 4 were obtained. l -Arabinose yielded the same main components as d -xylose (except for the absence of 6 ) but in lower yields.*Dedicated to Professor M. Stacey, C.B.E., F.R.S., in honour of his 65th birthday.
Background/Purpose The primary goal of this study was to test whether high-altitude exposure (HAE: 0.9% O 2 at 0.47 ATA for 24 hours) was capable of increasing the systemic inflammatory markers as well as the toxic organ injury indicators in rats, with a secondary goal to test whether preinduction of heat shock protein (HSP) 70 by hypobaric hypoxia preconditioning (HHP: 18.3% O 2 at 0.66 ATA for 5 h/day on 5 days consecutively for 2 weeks) attenuated the proposed increased serum levels of both the systemic inflammatory markers and the toxic organ injury indicators. Methods Rats were assigned to: (1) non-HHP (21% O 2 at 1.0 ATA)+non-HAE (21% O 2 at 1.0 ATA) group; (2) non-HHP+HAE group; (3) HHP+non-HAE group; (4) HHP+HAE group; and (5) HHP+HSP70 antibodies (Ab)+HAE group. For the HSP70Ab group, a neutralizing HSP70Ab was injected intravenously at 24 hours prior to HAE. All the physiological and biochemical parameters were obtained at the end of HAE or the equivalent time period of non-HAE. Blood samples were obtained for determination of both the systemic inflammatory markers (e.g., serum tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, and liver myeloperoxidase activity) and the toxic organ injury indicators (e.g., nitric oxide metabolites, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and lactate dehydrogenase). Results HHP, in addition to inducing overexpression of tissue HSP70, significantly attenuated the HAE-induced hypotension, bradycardia, hypoxia, acidosis, and increased tissue levels of both the systemic inflammatory markers and the toxic organ injury indicators. The beneficial effects of HHP in inducing tissue overexpression of HSP70 as well as in preventing the HAE-induced increased levels of the systemic inflammatory markers and the toxic organ injury indicators could be significantly reduced by HSP70Ab preconditioning. Conclusion These results suggest that HHP may downgrade both the systemic inflammatory markers and the toxic organ injury indicators in HAE by upregulating tissue HSP70.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoate-2,3-oxygenase is mainly localized in the soluble and the chloroplast fractions of Tecoma leaves. It is associated with the lamellar structure of the chloroplast fraction. The chloroplast enzyme has properties similar to those of the soluble enzyme, but it has a longer half-life and is more stable to dialysis than the soluble enzyme. It is inhibited by sulfhydryl reagents and the inhibition is reversed by the addition of reduced glutathione. The chloroplast enzyme is insensitive to iron-chelating agents. The enzyme loses activity on dialysis against copper-chelating agents and the activity is completely recovered on the addition of copper; addition of iron does not restore the activity. Polyphenol oxidase is probably present only in the active form in the Tecoma chloroplast but it is not involved in the intradiol cleavage of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Abstract The metabolism of salicyclic acid and a number of structural analogues by intact cultures of Glomerella cingulata has been studied. Salicylic and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids were unusual in yielding phenol and catechol respectively as metabolites. These conversions represent additional examples of the uncommon non-oxidative enzymatic decarboxylation (E.C. 4.1.1) of aromatic carboxylic acids.
The present study examined the effect of chelerlythrine, a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, on 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radicals (*OH) in rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate (0.5 mM or 0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the *OH generation as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in the striatum. Dopamine (DA)-selective neurotoxin, MPP+, infusion into the striatum of rats induces *OH formation, trapped as 2,3-DHBA. The application of chelerythrine, a potent and selective protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, suppressed MPP+ -induced *OH formation. The results in the present study suggests the protective effect of chelerythrine on *OH generation induced by MPP+.
Oxidative stress is an important pathogenic factor of cancer and cardiovascular, metabolic and degenerative diseases. On the other hand, mild oxidative stress, as in case of physical exercise, can increase the antioxidant defense system. However, the mechanisms underlying such desirable effects of mild oxidative stress are not well understood, because the production of hydroxyl radical, the most aggressive oxygen free radical, was not yet evaluated under physiological circumstances. Therefore, in this study, we evaluated the overall production of hydroxyl radical using blood samples of ten healthy male students before and 1 h after ergometry. One h before exercise, they took salicylic acid (1g) orally so that hydroxyl radical was trapped with salicylic acid, yielding a measurable reaction product, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Oxidative stress response to exercise was also evaluated in the volunteers without premedication by measuring serum peroxides and total antioxidant capacity of serum. These parameters of oxidative stress were then correlated with physical performance of the subjects. Ergometry caused an increase of the plasma hydroxyl radical level by 37.5% (p < 0.05), whereas the levels of total serum peroxides did not change significantly. Total serum antioxidant capacity, measured as uric acid equivalents, was higher after ergometry by 39.7% (p < 0.05), and was in positive correlation (r = 0.81) with anaerobic threshold, an indicator of physical condition. Hence, ergometry induces hydroxyl radical production and systemic oxidative stress response in the healthy subjects. Egometry could be used to study physiological oxidative stress response and to improve antioxidant defense capacities in humans.
Trichosporon cutaneum degraded L-tryptophan by a reaction sequence that included L-kynurenine, anthranilate, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate, catechol, and beta-ketoadipate as catabolites. All of the enzymes of the sequence were induced by both L-tryptophan and salicylate, and those for oxidizing kynurenine and its catabolites were induced by anthranilate but not by benzoate; induction was not coordinate. Molecular weights of 66,100 and 36,500 were determined, respectively, for purified 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate decarboxylase and its single subunit. Substrates for this enzyme were restricted to benzoic acids substituted with hydroxyl groups at C-2 and C-3; no added coenzyme was required for activity. Partially purified anthranilate hydroxylase (deaminating) catalyzed the incorporation of one atom of 18O, derived from either 18O2 or H2(18)O, into 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Vibrio campbellii BAA-1116 (formerly Vibrio harveyi) is a model organism for quorum sensing study and produces the siderophores anguibactin and amphi-enterobactin. This study examined the mechanisms and specificity of siderophore uptake in V. campbellii and V. harveyi, and surveyed the diversity of siderophore production in V. campbellii and V. harveyi strains. The amphi-enterobactin gene cluster of BAA-1116 harbors a gene, named fapA, that is a homologue of genes encoding Fe(III)-siderophore-specific outer membrane receptors. Another strain, V. campbellii HY01, a strain pathogenic to shrimp, also carries this cluster including fapA. Our siderophore bioassay results using HY01-derived indicator strains show that the FapA protein localized in the outer membrane fraction of V. campbellii HY01 is essential for the uptake of Fe(III)-amphi-enterobactin as well as exogenous siderophores, including enterobactin from E. coli, but not vanchrobactin from V. anguillarum RV22 while Fe(III)-amphi-enterobactin can be utilized by V. anguillarum. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry as well as bioassay revealed that various V. campbellii and V. harveyi strains produce a suite of amphi-enterobactins with various fatty acid appendages, including several novel amphi-enterobactins, and these amphi-enterobactins can be taken up by V. campbellii HY01 via FapA, indicating that amphi-enterobactin production is a common phenotype among V. campbellii and V. harveyi, whereas our previous work, confirmed herein, showed that anguibactin is only produced by V. campbellii strains. These results along with the additional finding that a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid biosynthesis gene, aebA, located in the amphi-enterobactin gene cluster, is essential for both anguibactin and amphi-enterobactin biosynthesis, suggest the possibility that amphi-enterobactin is a native siderophore of V. campbellii and V. harveyi, while the anguibactin system has been acquired by V. campbellii during evolution.
cytokines; free radicals; heat shock protein 70; high-altitude exposure; hypobaric hypoxia preconditioning; multiple organ dysfunction syndrome Background/Purpose: The primary goal of this study was to test whether high-altitude exposure (HAE: 0.9% O 2 at 0.47 ATA for 24 hours) was capable of increasing the systemic inflammatory markers as well as the toxic organ injury indicators in rats, with a secondary goal to test whether preinduction of heat shock protein (HSP) 70 by hypobaric hypoxia preconditioning (HHP: 18.3% O 2 at 0.66 ATA for 5 h/day on 5 days consecutively for 2 weeks) attenuated the proposed increased serum levels of both the systemic inflammatory markers and the toxic organ injury indicators. Methods: Rats were assigned to: (1) non-HHP (21% O 2 at 1.0 ATA)þnon-HAE (21% O 2 at 1.0 ATA) group; (2) non-HHPþHAE group; (3) HHPþnon-HAE group; (4) HHPþHAE group; and (5) HHPþHSP70 antibodies (Ab)þHAE group. For the HSP70Ab group, a neutralizing HSP70Ab was injected intravenously at 24 hours prior to HAE. All the physiological and biochemical parameters were obtained at the end of HAE or the equivalent time period of non-HAE. Blood samples were obtained for determination of both the systemic inflammatory markers (e.g., serum tumor necrosis factor-a, interleukin-1b, E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, and liver myeloperoxidase activity) and the toxic organ injury indicators (e.g., nitric oxide metabolites, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and lactate dehydrogenase). Available online at www.sciencedirect.com journal home page: www.j fma-onl ine.com
To compare the effect of immediate and delayed administration of oxygen on the accumulation of free radicals in ischemia–reperfusion animal models. Thirty-two adult male Mongolian gerbils with microdialysis probes implanted in the right hippocampal CA1 were divided randomly into four groups (eight each). One group was sham-operated (Sham group) whereas the other three groups were subjected to 10 min bilateral carotid artery occlusion (BCAO). BCAO-treated animals were then subjected to the following: (a) immediate 30% O2 (near normoxia, NO group), (b) immediate 100% O2 (hyperoxia, HO group), and (c) 30% O2 for 60 min, followed by 100% O2 for 60 min (delayed hyperoxia, DHO group). Hippocampal accumulation of hydroxyl radicals (•OH) during reperfusion was estimated by measuring 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA in microdialysis perfusate. Hippocampi were removed 2 h after perfusion to measure malondialdehyde, pyruvate dehydrogenase activity, indices of lipid peroxidation, and cellular respiration. At 24 h after BCAO, the histology of hippocampi was analyzed to rate the injury. Immediately after the onset of reperfusion, all groups showed markedly elevated DHBA, which returned to baseline over 1−2 h. Compared with the NO group, the HO group showed significantly higher peak DHBA and slower recovery. In contrast, the DHO group was not significantly different from the NO group in terms of the DHBA level. DHO animals also showed significantly lower hippocampal malondialdehyde accumulation and higher pyruvate dehydrogenase activity at 2 h after reperfusion versus the HO group. Histology analysis also showed animals in the DHO group with ameliorated injury compared with the HO group. Hydroxyl radical accumulation was more sensitive to O2 during early reperfusion. Delayed hyperoxia may re-establish oxidative metabolism while minimizing oxidative stress after CA.
Abstract The mechanism of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-induced depletion of brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) has been proposed to involve the generation of reactive oxygen species. In the present study, quantification of the extracellular concentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) from salicylic acid was used as an index of hydroxyl radical generation. Although both MDMA and d -amphetamine markedly increased the extracellular concentration of dopamine in the striatum, only MDMA increased the extracellular concentration of 2,3-DHBA. Treatment with fluoxetine either 1 h prior to or 4 h following the administration of MDMA reduced the MDMA-induced formation of 2,3-DHBA and also attenuated the MDMA-induced depletion of 5-HT in the striatum. These results are supportive of the view that the MDMA-induced generation of hydroxyl radicals and, ultimately, the long-term depletion of 5-HT, is dependent, in part, on the activation of the 5-HT transporter.
Abstract Cell suspensions of Catharanthus roseus produce 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) after elicitation with fungal elicitor. Together with the 2,3-DHBA production there is a strong increase in isochorismate synthase (ICS; EC 5.4.99.6) activity, an enzyme which converts chorismate into isochorismate. Bacteria also produce 2,3-DHBA which is an intermediate for the biosynthesis of siderophores. The biosynthesis pathway of 2,3-DHBA in bacteria proceeds via ICS. To investigate whether C. roseus cells use the same pathway to produce 2,3-DHBA, cells were transformed with constructs containing a C. roseus cDNA clone of ics in sense or antisense orientation. Although the transformation with ics in sense orientation resulted in constitutive ICS activity, no accumulation of 2,3-DHBA was observed. Transformation of ics in antisense orientation was not sufficient to block the ICS production. The biosynthesis of 2,3-DHBA in C. roseus probably involves a multi-enzyme pathway, which cannot simply be modulated by over-expression of ics .
The marine bacterium Vibrio sp. DS40M4 has been found to produce a new triscatechol amide siderophore, trivanchrobactin (1), a related new biscatecholamide compound, divanchrobactin (2), and the previously reported siderophores vanchrobactin (3) and anguibactin (4). Vanchrobactin is comprised of l-serine, d-arginine, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, while trivanchrobactin is a linear trimer of vanchrobactin joined by two serine ester linkages. The cyclic trivanchrobactin product was not detected. In addition to siderophore production, extracts of Vibrio sp. DS40M4 were screened for biologically active molecules; anguibactin was found to be cytotoxic against the P388 murine leukemia cell line (IC(50) < 15 microM).
The hydroxyl radical is a very reactive oxygen species that damages biomolecules in the brain and in other tissues. The possible pharmacological intervention to prevent hydroxyl radical formation was studied in vivo using the microdialysis technique in brains of nonanesthetized rats. Hydroxyl radicals form stable adducts [mainly 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA)] via an aromatic hydroxylation reaction with salicylic acid. 2,3-DHBA was separated and quantified by HPLC and electrochemical detection. Microdialysis probes were implanted into the striatum 1 day before measurement of levels of hydroxyl radicals. The next day, the probes were first perfused for 120 min with a modified Ringer's solution containing 5 mM salicylic acid, to obtain stable baselines. Afterward, the perfusion solution was switched to another solution that in addition contained 50 mM glutamate, to stimulate radical formation. Twenty minutes later, alpha-phenyl-tert-butylnitrone (PBN; 100 mg/kg), selegiline (10 mg/kg), or saline was administered intraperitoneally. The glutamate perfusion produced marked two- to 2.5-fold increases in 2,3-DHBA content. Treatment with PBN significantly antagonized the rise of 2,3-DHBA level, indicating that PBN is a direct radical scavenger not only in vitro but also in vivo. Acute treatment with selegiline failed to reduce significantly the glutamate-induced radical formation. The acute experiments presented here do not support the suggestion that the neuroprotective effects of selegiline described in the literature are due to a potential hydroxyl radical scavenging property of the drug.
Hitherto the siderophore-pattern analysis included bioassays to detect enterobactin,aerobactin and other siderophores of Enterobacteriaceae. In addition, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the precursor of enterobactin, and new hydroxamate siderophores could be examined by means of two new Salmonella mutants as indicator strains. In this manner the siderophore pattern analysis extends its discriminating ability. Among 167 Salmonella typhimurium strains tested, we detected 5 siderophore patterns. 6 siderophore patterns could be detected among a total of 204 E. coli strains. Using siderophore pattern analysis for clinical-epidemiological and ecological purposes appropriate technical methods can be recommended.
Vibriobactin [N(1)-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-N(5),N(9)-bis[2-(2, 3-dihydroxyphenyl)-5-methyloxazolinyl-4-carboxamido]norspermidine] , is an iron chelator from the cholera-causing bacterium Vibrio cholerae. The six-domain, 270 kDa nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) VibF, a component of vibriobactin synthetase, has been heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. VibF has an unusual NRPS domain organization: cyclization-cyclization-adenylation-condensation-peptidyl carrier protein-condensation (Cy(1)-Cy(2)-A-C(1)-PCP-C(2)). VibF activates and covalently loads its PCP with L-threonine, and together with vibriobactin synthetase proteins VibE (adenylation) and VibB (aryl carrier protein) condenses and heterocyclizes 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoyl-VibB with L-Thr to 2-dihydroxyphenyl-5-methyloxazolinyl-4-carboxy-VibF in the first demonstration of oxazoline formation by an NRPS cyclization domain. This enzyme-bound aryl oxazoline can be transferred by VibF to various amine acceptors but most efficiently to N(1)-(2, 3-dihydroxybenzoyl)norspermidine (k(cat) = 122 min(-1), K(m) = 1.7 microM), the product of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-VibB, norspermidine, and VibH. This diacylated product undergoes a second aryl oxazoline acylation on its remaining secondary amine, also catalyzed by VibF, to yield vibriobactin. Vibriobactin biosynthesis in vitro has thus been accomplished from four proteins, VibE, VibB, VibF, and VibH, with the substrates 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, L-Thr, norspermidine, and ATP. Vibriobactin synthetase is an unusual NRPS in that all intermediates are not covalently tethered as PCP thioesters and in that it represents an NRPS pathway with two branch points.
A HPLC method was developed to monitor the production of hydroxyl free radical (°OH) produced during in vitro experiments: (i) a chemical reaction involving EDTA chelated ferric ion and various exogenous and endogenous thiols [glutathione (GSH) and its metabolites], and (ii) an enzymatic reaction corresponding to the breakdown of GSH catalyzed by γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT). The method relies upon the use of a selective trapping reagent of °OH: salicylic acid (SA). The three resulting dihydroxylated products, i.e., 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB), 2,5-DHB and catechol, were measured in an ion-pairing reversed-phase HPLC system coupled with amperometric detection; the sum of the three concentrations was used to quantify the production of °OH during in vitro experiments. Resulting data demonstrate that °OH is produced during Fenton-like reactions involving thiols and GSH catabolism via GGT.
Abstract Gabaculine (GAB, 3-amino 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) treatment of developing radish seedling cotyledons induced a rapid decrease in 5-aminolevulinate dehydratase (EC 4.2.1.24) (5-ALAD) activity, which was more pronounced for light-grown seedlings. Some biochemical properties of 5-ALAD isolated from GAB-treated tissues were studied. No major difference was observed, as compared to the control, except for an increased Km (0.88–1.83 mM). The apparent Km of control enzyme was also increased by addition of aliquots of deproteinized extracts from treated tissues, which resulted in a decrease of the enzymatic activity in vitro. Analysis of these extracts after 2,3-diaminonaphthalene derivatization, along with specific enzymatic measurements, showed a net accumulation of (at least) 2-oxoglutarate and oxaloacetate, the former being known as a competitive inhibitor of 5-ALAD activity in vitro. It was concluded that the inhibition of 5-ALAD was the indirect consequence of gabaculine interaction with transaminating reactions. However, as 2-oxoglutarate is also observed in non-treated tissue extracts, but in smaller amounts, the role of this metabolic intermediate in the control of chlorophyll synthesis could be questioned.
The stability constant of a mixed ligand complex of the Scandium ion by using ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA, H2A) as a primary ligand, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA, H3B) as a secondary ligand has been investigated. The stability constants of the binary and mixed ligand complexes have been determined by using a potentiometric method and the BEST computer programat 25 oC in a 0.1 M NaCl ionic medium. In addition, the identified complex by potentiometry was isolated as solid and the structural characterization have been examined using IR, NMR, elemental analysis, AAS, ICP-OES, differential thermal analysis, thermogravimetric analysis method.
We examined ozone-induced upper and lower airway inflammatory responses and the concentrations of hydroxylated salicylate metabolites using nasal lavage fluid and induced sputum, in order to identify noninvasive and sensitive biomarkers for ozone exposure and effects. A time course for plasma concentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA, a salicylate metabolite and an indicator for hydroxyl radical) in response to 0.12 ppm ozone was also studied. Healthy, young, nonsmoking volunteers were given acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, 975 mg) or placebo orally. Subjects were exposed to ozone (0.12 or 0.4 ppm) or filtered air in an environmental chamber for 2h, while performing intermittent exercise. Blood was collected hourly over a 4-h period. After exposure, nasal lavage fluid was collected, and sputum was induced using hypertonic saline. Results show that in sputum the percentage of neutrophils was significantly higher after the subjects were exposed to 0.4 ppm ozone (p<.05) than after they were exposed t...
Abstract We describe a sensitive determination of aspirin (ASA) and its three metabolites (salicylic acid [SA], 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid [2,3-DHBA], and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid [gentisic acid (GA)]) in rat plasma. Analysis was carried out by on-line solid-phase extraction (SPE) using a methylcellulose-immobilized-strong anion-exchanger (MC-SAX), followed by liquid chromatography (LC) coupled with UV detection. The lower limits of quantitation for ASA and SA were 60 ng/mL in 100 μL of plasma, respectively. This method was validated with respect to intra- and inter-day precision, accuracy, and linearity up to concentrations of 20,000 ng/mL for ASA, SA, 2,3-DHBA and gentisic acid, respectively. The method was successfully applied to an analysis of the pharmacokinetics of ASA and SA in rats.
In the last decade polyphenol content of wines has attracted considerable interest as antioxidants. A high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) application for the determination of phenolic acids in the commercial wines of Turkey was carried out. Thirteen wine samples, differing in their origin of grape variety and vicinity, were analysed for total phenolic acid content by HPLC on C 18 -modified silica coupled with an electrochemical detector. The identification of phenolic compounds was made by comparison of their retention times with those of standards and by their electrochemical behaviour at potential of +0.650 V (vs. Ag/AgCl). HPLC analyses of wine extracts revealed the presence of gallic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, syringic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, ferulic acid, p-coumaric acid and vanillic acid. The phenolic compounds of wines examined ranged from 0.008 mg l -1 to 42.5 mg l -1 . Among the phenolics identified, gallic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, syringic acid and ferulic acid were pre...
1-Trichloromethyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-beta-carboline (TaClo), a neurotoxin structurally similar to the dopaminergic neurotoxin MPTP, may be formed in humans treated with chloral hydrate or exposed to trichloroethylene, a widely used industrial solvent. Systemically administered TaClo (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) induced an immediate and transient release of dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) measured using microdialysis. However, only 5-HT was increased significantly (area under the curve, AUC, for the 1-2 h-period following TaClo administration: 400% compared with the respective control value; 2-3 h-period: 326%). This was followed by a progressive increase in hydroxyl radical formation reflected by higher extracellular concentrations of the hydroxylate product of salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (AUC for the 1-2 h period following TaClo administration: 182% compared with the respective control value; 2-3 h period: 190%). In contrast, extracellular glutamate and GABA were increased 2-3 h post-injection by 64 and 51%, respectively. These data suggest that TaClo stimulates the generation of hydroxyl free radicals via an acute release of 5-HT and perhaps DA.
The component of the venom of the Taiwanese banded krait Bungarus multicinctus, β-bungarotoxin (β-BuTx), acts as an extremely potent inducer of neuronal apoptosis when applied to rat hippocampal cultures. While induction of cell death is dependent on toxin binding to voltage-activated K+ channels and subsequent internalization, the pro-apoptotic signals triggered by picomolar concentrations of β-BuTx are not understood. Following toxin binding, a dramatic increase in intracellular Ca2+ became detectable after 30 min, and in reactive oxygen species (ROS) after 3–4 h. Conversely, Ca2+ chelators, radical quenchers and antioxidants efficiently antagonized β-BuTx induced apoptosis. As shown for the antioxidant 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, analysis by matrix assisted laser desorbtion-time of flight (MALDI–TOF) mass spectrometry excluded the protective effects to be due to reductive cleavage of the toxic β-BuTx dimer. Inhibitors of the intracellular antioxidant defence system enhanced neuronal susceptibility to β-BuTx, supporting the essential role of ROS in β-BuTx-initiated apoptosis. Cell damage was accompanied by an accumulation of markers of oxidative cell stress, phospholipid hydroxyperoxides and the lipid peroxidation product, malonyl dialdehyde. These observations indicate that β-BuTx-induced cell death resulted from an intracellular signalling cascade involving subsequent stages of a dramatic rise in free Ca2+, the accumulation of ROS, membrane lipid peroxidation and, finally, apoptosis.
The effect of different drugs which affect lysosomal function (chloroquine, methylamine) and endocytosis (colchicine) or of the iron chelators desferrioxamine B, rhodotorulic acid, bipyridyl, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, isoniazid pyridoxal hydrazone on the uptake of 59Fe-loaded 3H-labelled transferrin by cultured rat embryo fibroblasts has been studied. All these substances, except isoniazid pyridoxal hydrazone reduce the uptake of iron by fibroblasts, without any significant effect on the uptake of [3H]transferrin, nor of its specific binding to the cells. Cell fractionation experiments indicate that in the presence of methylamine and chloroquine, most of the cell associated 3H label is no longer transferred into lysosomes and remains associated with subcellular compartments which have a 5'-nucleotidase activity (a marker enzyme of plasma membrane and related structures such as endocytic vesicles). ::: ::: ::: ::: Short-term kinetic experiments with fibroblasts incubated for 1 min at 37 °C with doubly labelled transferrin show that on reincubation in fresh medium almost all of the 59Fe initially bound remains associated with the cells whereas the 3H-labelled transferrin is released with a t1/2 of about 1.5 min. In the presence of desferrioxamine B both 59Fe and transferrin, the former in part as ferrioxamine, are released from the cells with the same kinetics as is observed for transferrin in the control experiments. Similar studies with cells preincubated for 16 h with chloroquine or methylamine indicate that the release of transferrin from the cells is slowed down considerably. Chloroquine-treated cells also release large amounts of 59Fe. ::: ::: ::: ::: These results are consistent with the model for iron release from transferrin proposed previously [1] involving receptor mediated endocytosis of transferrin followed by release of iron during a rapid passage of the transferrinreceptor complex in lysosomes and recycling of the complex to the plasma membrane where the iron-depleted transferrin is released. The inhibition of iron uptake by iron chelators such as desferrioxamine is consistent with complexation of iron by the chelator subsequent to its release from transferrin inside the cells and transfer of the iron-chelate into the extracellular medium.
Under conditions of iron deficiency, strains of Bacillus subtilis produced 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB), 2,3-dihydroxybenzolyglycine (DHBG), or both of these compounds. DHB(G) production [production of DHB(G) refers to the production of DHB, or DHBG, or both] was proportional to the amount of iron present and occurred logarithmically, paralleling growth. Supplementation of media with more than 150 mug of iron per liter at zero-time inhibited DHB accumulation completely. In the presence of DHB, lower levels of iron inhibited DHB(G) production, so that the actual inhibitor of synthesis may involve the Fe(3+):[DHB(G)](3) complex. The strains producing DHBG also produced coproporphyrin III during iron-deficient growth, whereas a strain producing DHB did not produce coproporphyrin III under these conditions. Accumulation of DHB(G) was influenced by the levels of aromatic amino acids and anthranilic acid in the medium. In vivo experiments with strain B-1471 demonstrated that DHB was coupled to added glycine to form DHBG. Metabolism of DHB(G) was observed in two of the strains studied.
Vibrio anguillarum serotype O2 strains produce a catechol siderophore named vanchrobactin, which has been identified as N-[N′-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-arginyl]-serine. This work describes a chromosomal region that harbours the genetic determinants necessary for the biosynthesis of vanchrobactin. The authors have identified the genes involved in 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) biosynthesis (vabA, vabB and vabC) and activation (vabE), and a gene (vabF) encoding a non-ribosomal peptide synthetase, which is putatively involved in the assembly of the siderophore components. Also described are the identification and characterization of genes encoding a putative vanchrobactin exporter (vabS) and a siderophore esterase (vabH). In-frame deletion mutants in vabA, vabB, vabC, vabE, vabF and vabH were impaired for growth under conditions of iron limitation, and the analysis of culture supernatants by chrome azurol-S and cross-feeding assays showed almost no production of siderophores in any of the vabABCEF mutants. In addition, deletion mutations of vabA, vabB and vabC abolished production of DHBA, as assessed by chemical and biological analyses. Complementation of each mutant with the corresponding gene provided in trans confirmed the involvement of this gene cluster in the biosynthesis of DHBA and vanchrobactin in V. anguillarum strain RV22. Based on chemical and genetic data, and on published models for other catechol siderophores, a model for vanchrobactin biosynthesis is proposed.
The formation of hydroxyl radical in the post-ischemic reperfused heart was measured with high performance liquid chromatography and ultraviolet detection using salicylic acid. Hydroxyl radicals react with salicylic acid yielding 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, which can be separated by the liquid chromatography. Isolated rat hearts were perfused with 1 mM salicylic acid and were subjected to 30 mins of global ischemia followed by aerobic or anaerobic reperfusion at 37 degrees C. The effluent from the hearts was collected at various intervals, extracted with ether, and injected into the high performance liquid chromatography unit. 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was present only after aerobic reperfusion and was not detected before ischemia. The liquid chromatography peak of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was too small for quantitation. The concentration of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was the highest within 300 s of reperfusion. 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was not detected in the ischemic hearts during anaerobic reperfusion. In ischemic hearts perfused with mannitol, the amount of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid after reperfusion was reduced. These data suggest that hydroxyl radicals are produced in the post-ischemic reperfused heart and that the present method is useful and reliable for the measurement of hydroxyl radicals in the heart.
Today we are beginning to understand how phytochemicals can influence metabolism, cellular signaling and gene expression. The hydroxybenzoic acids are related to salicylic acid and salicin, the first compounds isolated that have a pharmacological activity. In this review we examine how a number of hydroxyphenolics have the potential to ameliorate cardiovascular problems related to aging such as hypertension, atherosclerosis and dyslipidemia. The compounds focused upon include 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Pyrocatechuic acid), 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Gentisic acid), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Protocatechuic acid), 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (α-Resorcylic acid) and 3-monohydroxybenzoic acid. The latter two compounds activate the hydroxycarboxylic acid receptors with a consequence there is a reduction in adipocyte lipolysis with potential improvements of blood lipid profiles. Several of the other compounds can activate the Nrf2 signaling pathway that increases the expression of antioxidant enzymes, thereby decreasing oxidative stress and associated problems such as endothelial dysfunction that leads to hypertension as well as decreasing generalized inflammation that can lead to problems such as atherosclerosis. It has been known for many years that increased consumption of fruits and vegetables promotes health. We are beginning to understand how specific phytochemicals are responsible for such therapeutic effects. Hippocrates’ dictum of ‘Let food be your medicine and medicine your food’ can now be experimentally tested and the results of such experiments will enhance the ability of nutritionists to devise specific health-promoting diets.
Abstract This study focused on the early neurochemical events involved in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) neurotoxicity and the putative neuroprotective effects of pergolide. 6-OHDA in 0.1% ascorbic acid/saline was delivered into rat striatum by means of microdialysis and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) was measured as an index of hydroxyl free radical formation using salicylate trapping. Infusion of 6-OHDA (2–20 mM) via the dialysis probe for 15 min was associated with an immediate and striking increase in the extracellular levels of 2,3-DHBA and dopamine, and this effect was dose-dependent. An infusion of 10 mM 6-OHDA, equivalent to a direct injection of ∼4 μg free base, resulted in dopamine overflow with a maximum approx. 200-fold above the baseline. This massive overflow of toxic amounts of dopamine, much greater than expected of reuptake inhibition, seems to be the earliest response of nigrostriatal neurones to 6-OHDA. In rats treated with pergolide mesylate (7 days 0.5 mg/kg/day, i.p.), the average amount of 2,3-DHBA associated with 6-OHDA striatal infusion was significantly smaller than that in controls. This suggests that pergolide treatment leads to an increased ability of striatal tissue to quench hydroxyl radical formation in vivo.
SUMMARY: A catechol-type siderophore was secreted by Azospirillum brasilense in the growth medium when the cells became iron-deficient. The siderophore, which we call spirilobactin, was purified and a partial characterization of its structure by hydrolysis revealed that it contained 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, ornithine and serine in equimolar amounts. A high-affinity iron transport system capable of 59Fe uptake from a 59Fe(III)-spirilobactin complex was also induced in A. brasilense grown under iron deficiency. Kinetic studies on the iron uptake system revealed that it was carrier-mediated, with K ::: m and V ::: max values of 0·23 μm and 0·27 nmol Fe min−1(mg cell protein)−1, respectively. Dependence of iron uptake on an energized membrane, its insensitivity to arsenate and inhibition by protonophores suggest that transport is driven by the proton gradient across the membrane. Iron-deficient Azospirillum lipoferum transported 59Fe from the 59Fe(III)-spirilobactin complex (at a rate 3-fold lower than that of A. brasilense) but A. amazonense failed to show uptake of iron under the same conditions.
3-(2-Hydroxyphenoxy)phthalide is an intermediate in the hydrolysis of OO′-(2-carboxybenzylidene) catechol in aqueous buffers of pH 2·9–5. This reaction is general acid catalysed by carboxylic acids and also occurs spontaneously in a reaction which probably involves water as a general acid catalyst. The catalytic constants for the reactions catalysed by acetic and formic acids are similar to those of the analogously catalysed hydrolyses of OO′-(4-carboxybenzylidene) catechol, but the catalytic constant for the spontaneous reaction is ca. 30 times greater than that for spontaneous hydrolysis of the latter compound. This is attributed to nucleophilic assistance in reaction of OO′-(2-carboxybenzylidene) catechol. In the pH range 2–5, 2,3-OO′-(2-carboxybenzylidene)-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is converted into 3-(3-carboxy-2-hydroxyphenoxy)phthalide. The pH-rate profile is bell-shaped but at the maximum the reaction occurs only ca. three times faster than the hydrolysis of 2,3-OO′-(4-carboxybenzylidene)-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The neighbouring carboxylate group of the aldehyde moiety of this acid does not provide appreciable anchimeric assistance in the intramolecularly catalysed opening of the dioxolan ring.
The Knudsen mass-loss effusion technique was used to measure the vapor pressures at different temperatures of the following dihydroxybenzoic acids: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (345.22 and 363.18) K; 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (376.22 and 392.11) K; 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (372.14 and 388.92) K; 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (347.14 and 365.17) K; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (387.12 and 403.26) K; and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (345.22 and 363.18) K. From the temperature dependences of the vapor pressure of the crystalline compounds, the standard (p0 = 105 Pa) molar enthalpies and Gibbs energies of sublimation, at T = 298.15 K, were derived. For each of the six isomers the standard (p0 = 0.1 MPa) molar enthalpy of formation in the crystalline phase was derived from the experimental standard molar energy of combustion, in oxygen, measured by static-bomb combustion calorimetry at T = 298.15 K. The combination of the standard molar enthalpy of formation in the cry...
The potential efficacy of drug combinations that employ an ionophore to mobilize excess hepatic Fe and transport it to the gut for chelation to nonabsorbable polymers and excretion was evaluated in three ways: 1) two-phase partition experiments to assess the ionophoretic capability of lipid-soluble Fe(III)-chelators; 2) in vitro screening with Fe-loaded hepatocyte cultures; and 3) evaluation in Fe-dextran-loaded mice given a low-Fe-containing diet for maximal sensitivity. In the partition experiments, desferal (DF), (desferri)ferrichrome, pyridoxyl isonicotinoyl acid hydrazone hydrochloride (PINH), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, cholylhydroxamic acid and caffeic acid were effective to varying degrees in transferring Fe(III) from an aqueous to an organic hydrophobic phase. PINH, the most effective, combined with poly[vinylamine-vinyl(2,3-dihydroxybenzenecarboxamide)-vinyl sulfonate sodium salt] (DHBP), increased net 59Fe release from Fe-loaded hepatocytes above the sum of that released by each drug alone and comparable with DF-induced levels. In the mouse bioassay, the combination of PINH (8.1 mg/kg) and DHBP (170 mg/kg 2 times daily) caused a 32% increase in fecal Fe output, comparable with total Fe excretion with DF, but higher doses were toxic and lower doses ineffective. Furthermore, less than 5% of the total Fe load administered was excreted during the 4-day treatment period by either DF or the PINH-DHBP drug combination.
Vibrio anguillarum serotype O2 strains produce a catechol siderophore named vanchrobactin, which has been identified as N-[N9-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-arginyl]-serine. This work describes a chromosomal region that harbours the genetic determinants necessary for the biosynthesis of vanchrobactin. The authors have identified the genes involved in 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) biosynthesis (vabA, vabB and vabC) and activation (vabE ), and a gene (vabF ) encoding a non-ribosomal peptide synthetase, which is putatively involved in the assembly of the siderophore components. Also described are the identification and characterization of genes encoding a putative vanchrobactin exporter (vabS) and a siderophore esterase (vabH). In-frame deletion mutants in vabA, vabB, vabC, vabE, vabF and vabH were impaired for growth under conditions of iron limitation, and the analysis of culture supernatants by chrome azurol-S and cross-feeding assays showed almost no production of siderophores in any of the vabABCEF mutants. In addition, deletion mutations of vabA, vabB and vabC abolished production of DHBA, as assessed by chemical and biological analyses. Complementation of each mutant with the corresponding gene provided in trans confirmed the involvement of this gene cluster in the biosynthesis of DHBA and vanchrobactin in V. anguillarum strain RV22. Based on chemical and genetic data, and on published models for other catechol siderophores, a model for vanchrobactin biosynthesis is proposed.
Two important observations previously reported by us on 2,4,6-THBA led to the present study. First, while determining the ability of salicylic acid derivatives (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) to inhibit Cyclin Dependent Kinase (CDK) enzyme activity, we observed that 2,4,6-THBA also inhibited its activity in vitro [28] . Secondly, among all the hydroxybenzoic acids tested in that report, 2,4,6-THBA exhibited the highest level of CDK inhibition which prompted us to further examine its potential to inhibit cancer cell growth. CDKs are often dysregulated and overexpressed in cancers and therefore are attractive targets for cancer therapy [29] . The present investigation was carried out to study: (1) the effect of 2,4,6-THBA on CDKs 1, 2 and 4; (2) the interactions of 2,4,6-THBA with CDKs though in silico analysis; (3) to identify a transporter for its cellular uptake; and (4) its ability to inhibit cell proliferation in colon cancer cell lines. In this study we demonstrate that 2,4,6-THBA dose-dependently inhibits activities of CDKs 1, 2 and 4, and identify the specific amino acids involved in these interactions. We show that SLC5A8, a member of the monocarboxylic acid transporter (MCT) family, is required for the cellular uptake of 2,4,6-THBA. In cell lines ectopically expressing SLC5A8, 2,4,6-THBA induced the expression of CDK inhibitors p21 Cip1 and p27 Kip1 (mRNA and protein) and this was associated with decreased cell proliferation. Interestingly, the other two metabolites, 3,4-DHBA and 3,4,5-THBA, which failed to inhibit CDK activity, potently inhibited cancer cell proliferation independent of a functional SLC5A8. These results suggest that the flavonoid metabolite 2,4,6-THBA may mediate its anti-cancer effects through a CDKand SLC5A8-dependent pathway, whereas, 3,4-DHBA and 3,4,5-THBA are likely to exert their effect through a CDK-and SLC5A8-independent pathway.
Today we are beginning to understand how phytochemicals can influence metabolism, cellular signaling and gene expression. The hydroxybenzoic acids are related to salicylic acid and salicin, the first compounds isolated that have a pharmacological activity. In this review we examine how a number of hydroxyphenolics have the potential to ameliorate cardiovascular problems related to aging such as hypertension, atherosclerosis and dyslipidemia. The compounds focused upon include 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Pyrocatechuic acid), 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Gentisic acid), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Protocatechuic acid), 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (α-Resorcylic acid) and 3-monohydroxybenzoic acid. The latter two compounds activate the hydroxycarboxylic acid receptors with a consequence there is a reduction in adipocyte lipolysis with potential improvements of blood lipid profiles. Several of the other compounds can activate the Nrf2 signaling pathway that increases the expression of antioxidant enzymes, thereby decreasing oxidative stress and associated problems such as endothelial dysfunction that leads to hypertension as well as decreasing generalized inflammation that can lead to problems such as atherosclerosis. It has been known for many years that increased consumption of fruits and vegetables promotes health. We are beginning to understand how specific phytochemicals are responsible for such therapeutic effects. Hippocrates' dictum of 'Let food be your medicine and medicine your food' can now be experimentally tested and the results of such experiments will enhance the ability of nutritionists to devise specific health-promoting diets.
The Gram-negative bacterium Escherichia coli employs siderophore-mediated iron acquisition as a dominant means of importing extracellular iron under conditions of iron starvation [1] . The two major siderophores of E. coli are the hydroxamate siderophore aerobactin and the catecholate siderophore enterobactin [2, 3] . Enterobactin consists of three dihydroxybenzoate groups linked by a triserine lactone core. It is synthesized in the E. coli cytoplasm and then secreted in the apo form to chelate extracellular Fe 3+ . Uptake of ferric enterobactin is then mediated by a TonB-dependent uptake system [4] . Biosynthesis of enterobactin occurs in a pathway containing two major functional arms: (1) synthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) from chorismate as catalyzed by the sequentially-related enzymes EntC, EntB (N-terminal isochorismatase domain), and EntA; (2) condensation of three molecules of DHB with three molecules of L-serine via a non-ribosomal peptide synthesis (NRPS)
Four gene products involved in the enzymatic synthesis of enterochelin from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate, L-serine and ATP (Luke, R.K.L. and Gibson, F. (1971) J. Bacteriol. 107,557-562; Woodrow, G.C., Young, I.G. and Gibson, F. (1975) J. Bacteriol. 124, 1-6) have been partially purified using a previously reported fractionation procedure (Bryce, G.F. and Brot, N. (1972) Biochemistry 11, 1708-1715). The products of genes E, F and G have been separated from each other and correspond to the E1, E2 and E3 activities described by Bryce and Brot. These three gene products were not completely separated from the product of gene D. We refer to these gene products as components E, F, G and D of the enzymic apparatus for biosynthesis of enterochelin. Certain properties and functions of the four semi-purified components have been investigated. The E component is involved in the activation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate and the F component in the activation of L-serine. The D component physically associates with the F and G components during gel filtration and chromatography on DEAE Sephadex. It is proposed that the synthesis of enterochelin from L-serine and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is catalysed in vivo by a multienzyme complex, enterochelin synthetase.
1. Administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'ecstasy') to mice produces acute hyperthermia and long-term degeneration of striatal dopamine nerve terminals. Attenuation of the hyperthermia decreases the neurodegeneration. We have investigated the mechanisms involved in producing the neurotoxic loss of striatal dopamine. 2. MDMA produced a dose-dependent loss in striatal dopamine concentration 7 days later with 3 doses of 25 mg kg(-1) (3 h apart) producing a 70% loss. 3. Pretreatment 30 min before each MDMA dose with either of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists AR-R15896AR (20, 5, 5 mg kg(-1)) or MK-801 (0.5 mg kg(-1)x3) failed to provide neuroprotection. 4. Pretreatment with clomethiazole (50 mg kg(-1)x3) was similarly ineffective in protecting against MDMA-induced dopamine loss. 5. The free radical trapping compound PBN (150 mg kg(-1)x3) was neuroprotective, but it proved impossible to separate neuroprotection from a hypothermic effect on body temperature. 6. Pretreatment with the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor 7-NI (50 mg kg(-1)x3) produced neuroprotection, but also significant hypothermia. Two other NOS inhibitors, S-methyl-L-thiocitrulline (10 mg kg(-1)x3) and AR-R17477AR (5 mg kg(-1)x3), provided significant neuroprotection and had little effect on MDMA-induced hyperthermia. 7. MDMA (20 mg kg(-1)) increased 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid formation from salicylic acid perfused through a microdialysis tube implanted in the striatum, indicating increased free radical formation. This increase was prevented by AR-R17477AR administration. Since AR-R17477AR was also found to have no radical trapping activity this result suggests that MDMA-induced neurotoxicity results from MDMA or dopamine metabolites producing radicals that combine with NO to form tissue-damaging peroxynitrites.
We examined the protective effect of diltiazem, a calcium antagonist, on myocardial ischemic injury associated with generation of hydroxyl free radicals (.OH). Salicylic acid in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol.microliter-1.min-1) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of .OH as reflected by the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the myocardium. Cardiac dialysate was assayed for 2,3-DHBA by a high-performance liquid chromatographic-electrochemical (HPLC-EC) procedure. The heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of left anterior descending artery (LAD). The presence of .OH was indicated in the ischemic reperfused rat heart. However, when heart was reperfused, the elevation of 2,3-DHBA by 15-min ischemia was not observed in the ischemic zone following systemic administration of diltiazem (100 micrograms.min-1.kg-1), a calcium antagonist. When corresponding experiments were performed with allopurinol (10 mg.kg-1) administration of i.v. injection, the elevation of 2,3-DHBA was not observed. These results suggest that diltiazem may suppress the .OH generation from xanthine-xanthine oxidase system by ischemia-reperfusion.
We examined the effect of fluvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, on the production of hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation via nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activation by an in vivo microdialysis technique. The microdialysis probe was implanted in the left ventricular myocardium of anesthetized rats and tissue was perfused with Ringer's solution through the microdialysis probe at a rate of 1 microl/min. Sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH. Induction of [K(+)](o) (70 mM) or tyramine (1 mM), significantly increased the formation of *OH trapped as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). The application of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a NOS inhibitor, significantly decreased the K(+) depolarization-induced *OH formation, but the effect of tyramine significantly increased the level of 2,3-DHBA. When fluvastatin (100 microM), an inhibitor of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, was administered to L-NAME-pretreated animals, both KCl and tyramine failed to increase the level of 2,3-DHBA formation. The effect of fluvastatin may be unrelated to K(+) depolarization-induced *OH generation. To examine the effect of fluvastatin on ischemic/reperfused rat myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, a marked elevation of the level of 2,3-DHBA was observed. However, in the presence of fluvastatin (100 microM), the elevation of 2,3-DHBA was not observed in ischemia/reperfused rat heart. Fluvastatin, orally at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks, significantly blunted the rise of serum creatine phosphokinase and improved the electrocardiogram 2 h after coronary occlusion. These results suggest that fluvastatin is associated with a cardioprotective effect due to the suppression of noradrenaline-induced *OH generation by inhibiting LDL oxidation in the heart.
Abstract It has been suggested that stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) show vulnerability to neuronal damage following transient ischemia. To observe the effect of hydroxyl radicals on neuronal damage in the hippocampus of SHRSP during ischemia and recirculation, we measured the levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), as a biological marker of hydroxyl radicals in the hippocampus of SHRSP, by high pressure liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection. The production of hydroxyl radicals in the hippocampus during the first 20 min of recirculation was a peak in all intervals. The changes in 2,3-DHBA levels during ischemia and recirculation in SHRSP were significantly higher than in Wistar–Kyoto rats. These results suggest that neuronal damage following ischemia and recirculation is, in part, caused by the increase in hydroxyl radicals during ischemia and recirculation.
Abstract A social challenge of the 21 st century is to reduce the incidence of chronic diseases. A balanced diet rich in polyphenols could contribute to reduce the risk and to the prevention of diabetes, coronary heart disease, cancer, Alzheimer’s diseases and cataract 1 . Hydroxybenzoic acids (HBA) and their derivatives, which are one of the substances responsible for these beneficial properties, are known mainly due to their antioxidant properties 2 . They are effective scavengers of free radicals and reactive nitrogen species, such as peroxynitrite. Peroxynitrite is resulting from the reaction of nitric oxide with superoxide, causes lipid peroxidation and subsequent cellular damage and is responsible for the inactivation of many enzymes, activation of stress signalling pathways, release of proapoptotic factors, as well as cardiovascular dysfunction in septic schock 3 . In this study we have tested 2-HBA, 3-HBA, 4-HBA, acetylsalicylic acid, 4-HBA methyl and propyl esters, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), 2,5-DHBA, 2,4-DHBA, 2,6-DHBA, 3,5-DHBA, 3,4-DHBA, gallic acid and caffeic acid, by UV/VIS spectroscopy. The best ability to scavenge peroxynitrite was observed for gallic acid, 2,4-DHBA, 3,5-DHBA and caffeic acid. Improved comprehension of the complex relationship between the antioxidant properties of substances and their structure is important to understand their proper use in the prevention and treatment of diseases and for the detection of pathological processes. Monitoring and improved understanding of the antioxidant properties of hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives are important due to their frequent use in modern medical nutrition therapies.
We examined the effect of fluvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, on the production of hydroxyl radical ( c OH) generation via nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activation by an in vivo microdialysis technique. The microdialysis probe was implanted in the left ventricular myocardium of anesthetized rats and tissue was perfused with Ringer's solution through the microdialysis probe at a rate of 1 Wl/min. Sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/Wl/min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of c OH. Induction of [K ] o (70 mM) or tyramine (1 mM), significantly increased the formation of c OH trapped as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). The application of N G -nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a NOS inhibitor, significantly decreased the K depolarization-induced c OH formation, but the effect of tyramine significantly increased the level of 2,3-DHBA. When fluvastatin (100 WM), an inhibitor of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, was administered to L-NAME-pretreated animals, both KCl and tyramine failed to increase the level of 2,3-DHBA formation. The effect of fluvastatin may be unrelated to K depolarization-induced c OH generation. To examine the effect of fluvastatin on ischemic/reperfused rat myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, a marked elevation of the level of 2,3-DHBA was observed. However, in the presence of fluvastatin (100 WM), the elevation of 2,3-DHBA was not observed in ischemia/reperfused rat heart. Fluvastatin, orally at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day for 4 weeks, significantly blunted the rise of serum creatine phosphokinase and improved the electrocardiogram 2 h after coronary occlusion. These results suggest that fluvastatin is associated with a cardioprotective effect due to the suppression of noradrenaline-induced c OH generation by inhibiting LDL oxidation in the heart. ß 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Most species of the genus Aeromonas produce the siderophore amonabactin, although two species produce enterobactin, the siderophore of many enteric bacteria. Both siderophores contain 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB). Siderophore genes (designated aebC, -E, -B and -A, for aeromonad enterobactin biosynthesis) that complemented mutations in the enterobactin genes of the Escherichia coli 2,3-DHB operon, entCEBA(P15), were cloned from an enterobactin-producing isolate of the Aeromonas spp. Mapping of the aeromonad genes suggested a gene order of aebCEBA, identical to that of the E. coli 2,3-DHB operon. Gene probes for the aeromonad aebCE genes and for amoA (the entC-equivalent gene previously cloned from an amonabactin-producing Aeromonas spp.) did not cross-hybridize. Gene probes for the E. coli 2,3-DHB genes entCEBA did not hybridize with Aeromonas spp. DNA. Therefore, in the genus Aeromonas, 2,3-DHB synthesis is encoded by two distinct gene groups; one (amo) is present in the amonabactin-producers, while the other (aeb) occurs in the enterobactin-producers. Each of these systems differs from (but is functionally related to) the E. coli 2,3-DHB operon. These genes may have diverged from an ancestral group of 2,3-DHB genes.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) produces a parkinsonian syndrome after its conversion to 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+)) by B-form monoamine oxidase (MAO) in the brain, which is one of the most potent dopamine (DA)-releasing agents. MPP(+) perfusion into the striatum increases extracellular DA levels and this increase may concomitantly induce the formation of reactive free oxygen radicals, such as hydroxyl radical (.OH). These elevations seem to induce lipid peroxidation of striatum membranes, as detected by increases non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) levels. Sustained increase in striatal DA efflux by MAO inhibition produce.OH generation by products of monoamine. Therefore, reserpine-induced DA depletion clearly decreased MPP(+)-induced.OH formation. Neuromelanine synthesis from DA produce highly reactive free radicals. Nitric oxide (NO) contributes to produce MPP(+)-induced.OH generation via NO synthase (NOS) activation by depolarization. The antioxidation effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor protects against MPP(+)-induced.OH generation due to the suppression of the Ca(2+)-dependent release of DA. These findings may be useful in elucidating the actual mechanism of free radical formation in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative brain disorders, including Parkinson's disease and traumatic brain injuries. This review describes the free radicals mechanisms involved in MPTP toxicity and their possible involvement in the the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Vibrio cholerae secretes the catechol siderophore vibriobactin in response to iron limitation. Vibriobactin is structurally similar to enterobactin, the siderophore produced by Escherichia coli, and both organisms produce 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) as an intermediate in siderophore biosynthesis. To isolate and characterize V. cholerae genes involved in vibriobactin biosynthesis, we constructed a genomic cosmid bank of V. cholerae DNA and isolated clones that complemented mutations in E. coli enterobactin biosynthesis genes. V. cholerae homologs of entA, entB, entC, entD, and entE were identified on overlapping cosmid clones. Our data indicate that the vibriobactin genes are clustered, like the E. coli enterobactin genes, but the organization of the genes within these clusters is different. In this paper, we present the organization and sequences of genes involved in the synthesis and activation of DHBA. In addition, a V. cholerae strain with a chromosomal mutation in vibA was constructed by marker exchange. This strain was unable to produce vibriobactin or DHBA, confirming that in V. cholerae VibA catalyzes an early step in vibriobactin biosynthesis.
Anguibactin, the siderophore produced by Vibrioanguillarum 775 is synthesized from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), cysteine and hydroxyhistamine via a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) mechanism. Most of the genes encoding anguibactin biosynthetic proteins are harbored by the pJM1 plasmid. In this work we report the identification of a homologue of the plasmid-encoded angB on the chromosome of strain 775. The product of both genes harbor an isochorismate lyase (ICL) domain that converts isochorismic acid to 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, one of the steps of DHBA synthesis. We show in this work that both ICL domains are functional in the production of DHBA in V. anguillarum as well as in E. coli. Substitution by alanine of the aspartic acid residue in the active site of both ICL domains completely abolishes their isochorismate lyase activity in vivo. The two proteins also carry an aryl carrier protein (ArCP) domain. In contrast with the ICL domains only the plasmid encoded ArCP can participate in anguibactin production as determined by complementation analyses and site-directed mutagenesis in the active site of the plasmid encoded protein, S248A. The site-directed mutants, D37A in the ICL domain and S248A in the ArCP domain of the plasmid encoded AngB were also tested in vitro and clearly show the importance of each residue for the domain function and that each domain operates independently.
The effect of ferric iron [Fe(III)] on pyrene degradation and siderophore production was studied in Pseudomonas fluorescens 29L. In the presence of 0.5 μM of Fe(III) and 50 mg of pyrene per liter of medium as a carbon source, 2.2 mg of pyrene was degraded per liter of medium per day and 25.3 μM of 2,3-DHBA (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) equivalent of siderophores was produced per day. However, the pyrene degradation rate was 1.3 times higher and no siderophores were produced with the addition of 1 μM of Fe(III). Similar trends were seen with 50 mg of succinate per liter of medium as a carbon source, although the growth of strain 29L and the succinate degradation rate were higher. In the absence of siderophore production, pyrene and succinate continued to be biodegraded. This indicates that Fe(III) and not siderophore production affects the hydrocarbon degradation rate. Only 18% of strain 29L mutants capable of growth on pyrene produced siderophores, while among the mutants capable of growth on succinate, only 10% produced siderophores. This indicates that siderophores are not required for pyrene biodegradation. Fe(III) enhances pyrene degradation in Pseudomonas fluorescens 29L but it may be utilized by mechanisms other than siderophores.
Although Naja naja atra cardiotoxin 3 (CTX3) and cardiotoxin 4 (CTX4) showed different cytotoxicity toward human neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cells, the two toxins induced apoptotic death on SK-N-SH cells. The apoptosis signals of CTX3 and CTX3 included ROS generation, increase in mitochondrial permeability transition, cytochrome c release to the cytosol and activation of caspase-9 and -3. However, CTX3 quickly induced the effects with higher magnitude compared with CTX4. ROS production and subsequent apoptotic cell death in CTX-treated cells were partly blocked by the antioxidant 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Nevertheless, mitochondria alteration and cytosolic cytochrome c release were not significantly attenuated by the antioxidant. Cell death was not completely inhibited by caspase-3 inhibitor. Moreover, cyclosporine A, an inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability transition, slightly decreased CTX-induced ROS generation by approximately 15%. Taken together, our data indicate that N. naja atra CTXs induce ROS generation that is not wholly dependent on mitochondrial dysfunction, and that the cytotoxic potency of CTX3 and CTX4 on SK-N-SH cells is, at least in part, correlated with their capability in inducing ROS generation and mitochondrial alterations.
The time course of germination of conidia of Colletotrichum musae in the presence of different germination stimulants is consistent with the postulate that the stimulation of germination by anthranilic acid can be attributed to its previously established conversion to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in conidia. The activity of a number of synthetic chelating agents, such as EDTA and 1,10-phenanthroline, in promoting germination of the same order as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid at about the same molarity provides support for the hypothesis that the chelating properties of the latter compound are important in its biological action. ::: Experiments with conidia produced on media of different iron concentrations indicate that in the absence of a germination stimulant there is a high inverse correlation between the percentage germination of conidia and conidial iron content. However, in the presence of anthranilic acid there is no significant correlation between these parameters, percentage germination remaining uniformly high regardless of the conidial iron concentration. It is concluded that conidial iron is involved in the inhibition of germination and that this inhibition can be relieved non-specifically by a variety of chelating agents.
U nder iron-limited conditions many bacterial species biosynthesize Fe3+ complexing compounds, so-called siderophores. Their most common struc tural features are hydroxamate and/or catecholate units, the latter ones mostly derived from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid attached to amino acids, amino alcohols or aliphatic diamines. We wish now to re port the isolation and structure elucidation of two catecholate siderophores from Chryseomonas lu teola. One of them proved to be chrysobactin (1) which had been obtained before from Erwinia chrysanthemi (Persmark et al., 1989) and from Ser ratia marcescens (Ehlert et al., 1994) . The second one named chryseomonin could be shown to be 6-(l-pyridinio-)chrysobactin, i.e., N2-[2,3-dihydroxy-6-(l-pyridinio)-benzoyl]-lysylserine (2), a novel type of catecholate siderophores.
Abstract Anguibactin, the siderophore produced by Vibrio anguillarum 775 is synthesized from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), cysteine and hydroxyhistamine via a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) mechanism. Most of the genes encoding anguibactin biosynthetic proteins are harbored by the pJM1 plasmid. In this work we report the identification of a homologue of the plasmidencoded angB on the chromosome of strain 775. The product of both genes harbor an isochorismate lyase (ICL) domain that converts isochorismic acid to 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, one of the steps of DHBA synthesis. We show in this work that both ICL domains are functional in the production of DHBA in V. anguillarum as well as in E. coli. Substitution by alanine of the aspartic acid residue in the active site of both ICL domains completely abolishes their isochorismate lyase activity in vivo. The two proteins also carry an aryl carrier protein (ArCP) domain. In contrast with the ICL domains only the plasmid encoded ArCP can participate in anguibactin production as determined by complementation analyses and site-directed mutagenesis in the active site of the plasmid encoded protein, S248A. The site-directed mutants, D37A in the ICL domain and S248A in the ArCP domain of the plasmid encoded AngB were also tested in vitro and clearly show the importance of each residue for the domain function and that each domain operates independently.
Vibrio anguillarum is a marine bacterium responsible for both marine and freshwater fish epizootics throughout the world (Actis et al. 1999) . Many serotype O1 strains of V. anguillarum possess the 65 kb virulence plasmid pJM1 or pJM1-like plasmids encoding an iron-scavenging system, which is essential for virulence in this bacterium (Conchas et al. 1991; Crosa 1980; Di Lorenzo et al. 2003; Tolmasky et al. 1988a, b) . This system includes a low-molecular-weight iron-binding compound, anguibactin, which once secreted, competes for bound iron within the host fish (Actis et al. 1988; Wolf and Crosa 1986) . The iron-anguibactin complex is then internalized by a transport system that includes the FatA, -B, -C, and -D proteins and requires the TonB2 complex for energy-transduction to the outer membrane (Actis et al. 1988; Stork et al. 2004) . Anguibactin possesses both a catechol and a hydroxamate group and it has been characterized as x-N-hydroxy-x-N ((2 0 -(2 00 ,3 00 -dihydroxyphenyl)thiazolin-4 0 -yl)carboxy) histamine by crystal X-ray diffraction studies and chemical analysis (Jalal et al. 1989 ). Retrobiosynthesis and experimental data showed that anguibactin is synthesized from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), cysteine, and hydroxyhistamine (Di Lorenzo et al. 2004a) .
Background The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of memantine on brain ischemia. Because we can measure nitric oxide (NO) production and hydroxyl radical metabolism continuously, we investigated the effect of memantine on NO production and hydroxyl radical metabolism in cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. Methods Memantine (25 µmol/kg) was administered intraperitoneally to 6 C57BL/6 mice 30 minutes before ischemia. Seven additional mice received no injection (controls). NO production and hydroxyl radical metabolism were continuously monitored using bilateral striatal microdialysis in vivo. Hydroxyl radical formation was monitored using the salicylate trapping method. Forebrain ischemia was produced in all mice by occluding the common carotid artery bilaterally for 10 minutes. Levels of the NO metabolites nitrite (NO2−) and nitrate (NO3−) were determined using the Griess reaction. Survival rates of hippocampal CA1 neurons were calculated and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG)-immunopositive cells were counted to evaluate the oxidative stress in hippocampal CA1 neurons 72 hours after the start of reperfusion. Results The regional cerebral blood flow was significantly higher in the memantine group than in the control group after reperfusion. Furthermore, the level of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was significantly lower in the memantine group than in the control group during ischemia and reperfusion. Levels of NO2− and NO3− did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. Although survival rates in the CA1 did not differ significantly, there were fewer 8-OHdG-immunopositive cells in animals that had received memantine than in control animals. Conclusions These data suggest that memantine exerts partially neuroprotective effects against cerebral ischemic injury.
Abstract A novel on-line gold nanoparticle-catalyzed luminol–H 2 O 2 chemiluminescence (CL) detector for high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was established, in which gold nanoparticles were produced by the on-line reaction of H 2 O 2 , NaHCO 3 –Na 2 CO 3 (buffer solution of luminol), and HAuCl 4 . Eight phenolic compounds (gallic acid, protocatechuic acid, protocatechuic aldehyde, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, (+)-catechin, and (−)-epicatechin) were chosen as the model compounds. Every separated phenolic compound in the column eluent strongly enhanced the CL signal of on-line gold nanoparticle-catalyzed luminol system. The CL and UV–visible absorption spectra and transmission electron microscopy studies were carried out, and the CL enhancement mechanism was ascribed to that the presence of phenolic compound promoted the on-line formation of 38-nm-diameter gold nanoparticles, which better catalyzed the luminol–H 2 O 2 CL reaction. The effects of methanol and phosphoric acid in the proposed HPLC configuration were performed by two gradient elution programs, and the baseline profile revealed that on-line gold nanoparticle-catalyzed luminol–H 2 O 2 CL detector had better compatibility than 38 nm gold colloids–luminol–H 2 O 2 CL detector. The proposed CL detector exhibits excellent analytical performance with the low detection limit (S/N = 3) of 0.53–0.97 ng/mL (10.6–19.4 pg) phenolic compounds, and offers a new strategy for developing on-line nanoparticle-catalyzed CL detector for HPLC with sensitive analysis.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid is present in blood plasma and urine of healthy human volunteers after aspirin ingestion. Its identity has been confirmed by mass spectrometry and by electrochemical analysis. Methods for its identification and measurement are described. The concentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is much lower than that of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, salicylic acid or salicyluric acid.
The use of 5-aminosalicylic acid in assessment of reactive oxygen species formation was investigated by in vitro Fenton and ozonation reactions, and by in vivo ozone-exposure experiments. Enzymatic hydroxylation was evaluated by a microsomal assay. Fischer 344 male rats (250 g) injected with 5-aminosalicylic acid (100 mg x kg(-1) i.p.; 30 min) were exposed to ozone (0, 1, 2 ppm; nose only, 2 h); bronchoalveolar lavage, lung homogenates, and plasma were recovered. Oxidation products of 5-aminosalicylic acid were as follows: salicylic acid, by deamination; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, from radical or enzymatic hydroxylation; 5-amino-2-hydroxy-N,N'-bis(3-carboxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-1,4-benzoquinonediimine, a condensation product of oxidized 5-aminosalicylic acid; and 5-amino-2,3,4,6-tetrahydroxybenzoic acid, attributed to hydroxyl radical attack without deamination, identified by HPLC electrochemical (HPLC-EC) detector system analysis and by GC-MS analysis of trimethylsilyl derivatives. 5-Aminotetrahydroxybenzoic acid was not formed enzymatically. 5-Aminotetrahydroxybenzoic acid, but not 5-aminosalicylic acid, was significantly elevated in bronchoalveolar lavage (+86%) and lung homogenates (+56%) in response to 2 ppm ozone (p < 0.05); no significant changes were detected in plasma. The data indicate that hydroxylation of 5-aminosalicylic acid is a potential specific probe for in vivo oxidative stress.
Oxidative damage is considered to be an important factor of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) toxicity. To address this issue, microdialysis probes were implanted into the striatum of Wistar rats and perfused with 6-OHDA. Salicylate was included in the perfusion fluid to measure 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as a marker of hydroxyl radical formation using HPLC with electrochemical detection. Additionally, striatal tissue was analysed for DNA base alterations using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. 6-OHDA administration resulted in a rapid and substantial 6.6-fold increase in 2,3-DHBA formation and also increased levels of the modified DNA bases 5-hydroxycytosine, hypoxanthine and 2,6-diamino-4-hydroxy-5-formamidopyrimidine. Hydroxyl radical formation and DNA base alterations are early phenomena of 6-OHDA toxicity and provide clues to the processes that may be involved in the initiation of cell death in Parkinson's disease.
The present study examined whether tamoxifen could suppress antidepressant drug phenelzine can increase an active dopaminergic neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation in the extracellular fluid of rat striatum, using in vivo microdialysis system. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Infusion of phenelzine (0.1 mM or 0.1 nmol/microl/min) into the striatum drastically increased dopamine (DA) efflux and the *OH formation, trapped as 2,3-DHBA by the possible increased production of MPP+. However, tamoxifen (100 microM) significantly suppressed phenelzine enhanced DA efflux and *OH formation by MPP+. These results in the pressent study is the first demonstration showing the protective effect of tamoxifen on *OH generation induced by phenelzine enhanced MPP+ by suppressing DA efflux.
The crystal engineering strategy was used to facilitate the supramolecular synthesis of a new crystalline phase of iloperidone, an atypical psychotropic drug with known problems related to poor dissolution and absorption profile. The novel crystal forms Jilin University China-Cocrystal-1 (JUC-C1), Jilin University China-Cocrystal-2 (JUC-C2), and Jilin University China-Cocrystal-3 (JUC-C3) of iloperidone with 3-hydroxybenzoic acid (3-HBA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,5-DHBA) were obtained using the reaction crystallization method (RCM). The dissolution and pharmacokinetics studies were performed to exploit this atypical psychotropic drug. In the dissolution experiment, JUC-C1, JUC-C2, and JUC-C3 (JUC-C1–3) showed a much faster dissolution rate than the original active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in simulated gastric fluid media (pH = 1.2). Furthermore, pharmacokinetic behavior of JUC-C1–3 and API was investigated to evaluate the effectiveness of this strategy ...
Abstract We examined the effect of imipramine (a tricyclic antidepressant drug) on hydroxyl radical (·OH) generation induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP + ) in extracellular fluid of rat striatum, using a microdialysis technique. Imipramine enhanced the formation of ·OH trapped as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) induced by MPP + (5 mM). Introduction of imipramine (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mM) dose-dependently increased the level of dopamine (DA) release. Concomitantly, imipramine enhanced DA efflux and the level of DHBA induced by MPP + , as compared with MPP + -treated control. When corresponding experiments were performed with reserpinized rats, there were small increases in the levels of DA and nonsignificant increase in the formation of DHBA. When iron (II) was administered to imipramine (1 mM)-treated animals, a marked elevation of DHBA was observed, compared with MPP + -only treated animals. A positive linear correlation was observed between iron (II) and DHBA ( R 2 =0.985) in the dialysate. These results indicate that imipramine enhances generation of ·OH induced by MPP + during enhanced DA overflow.
Salicylate hydroxylation using hydroxyl free radicals results into formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol. Inspite of the fact that in vitro experiments have shown that catechol is a minor product, we have shown by these in vivo studies that it is a substantial product. Since catechol as well as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid have not been found to be produced enzymatically from salicylates, they appear useful as in vivo indicators for monitoring hydroxyl free radicals. Administration of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) to rat striatum using microdialysis results into the formation of hydroxyl radicals. Salicylate perfusion enables the estimation of the three derivatives cited above. They increased significantly after MPP+ administration in comparison to the baseline values, with catechol being the most significant. The maximum amounts were achieved 60 min after MPP+ administration, and the mean percentage increase at this time point were 83.1% for 2,3-DBA (n = 6, P = 0.005), 81.25% for 2,5-DBA (n = 6, P = 0.011) and 1228.8% for catechol (n = 4, p = 0.00008). MPP+ caused substantial decrease of dopamine metabolites. Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid decreased to 13% and homovanillic acid to 11.4%. We conclude that catechol is an important indicator of hydroxyl free radical formation in this animal model which is well suited to study the role of free radicals in Parkinsonism.
Abstract From cultures of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 14067 (Brevibacterium sp. DSM 20411) a catecholate sid erophore could be isolated. It comprises three identical units consisting of L-Thr, Gly and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid which form a tri-lactonic macrocycle -the second example of this structural type.
16) Abbreviations and the structure of reference standards employed in this study are presented in Table I . Other than the above reference standards, mono-hydroxylated compounds 9,17) of I, II, PBalc, PBacid and t-Cl 2 CA, oxidized compounds at the alkenyl methyl group of CRA 18) , carboxy and amide derivatives of II and dePh-II 13) , 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and phenoxymandelic acid were used for HPLC and TLC analyses, but were not detected and are not listed in Table 1 . The six iron porphyrins (Fig. 2) having different substituents at b-and meso-positions of the ring and an axial ligand were used. F 20 TPPFeCl and 4OMeTPPFeCl from Sigma-Aldrich Japan Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan), F 20 Br 8 TPPFeCl from Wako Pure Chemical Industries, Ltd. (Osaka, Japan), and F 20 Br 8 -TPPFeNO 3 and F 20 Br 8 TPPFeCF 3 SO 3 from Funakoshi Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) were respectively purchased and used without further purification. Cl 8 TPPFeCl was synthesized in our laboratory as reported.
We examined the effect of imipramine (a tricyclic antidepressant drug) on hydroxyl radical ( Á OH) generation induced by 1-methyl-4phenylpyridinium ion (MPP + ) in extracellular fluid of rat striatum, using a microdialysis technique. Imipramine enhanced the formation of Á OH trapped as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) induced by MPP + (5 mM). Introduction of imipramine (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mM) dose-dependently increased the level of dopamine (DA) release. Concomitantly, imipramine enhanced DA efflux and the level of DHBA induced by MPP + , as compared with MPP + -treated control. When corresponding experiments were performed with reserpinized rats, there were small increases in the levels of DA and nonsignificant increase in the formation of DHBA. When iron (II) was administered to imipramine (1 mM)-treated animals, a marked elevation of DHBA was observed, compared with MPP + -only treated animals. A positive linear correlation was observed between iron (II) and DHBA (R 2 = 0.985) in the dialysate. These results indicate that imipramine enhances generation of Á OH induced by MPP + during enhanced DA overflow.
Corynebacterium glutamicum, Brevibacterium sp., Corynebactin, Catecholate, Siderophore From cultures of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 14067 (Brevibacterium sp. DSM 20411) a catecholate sid erophore could be isolated. It comprises three identical units consisting of L-Thr, Gly and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid which form a tri-lactonic macrocycle -the second example of this structural type.
To secure iron supply when growing under ironlimited conditions many bacteria produce Fe3+ -complexing substances (so-called siderophores). Siderophores with high complexing constants offer an advantage over competitors to the producing Abbreviations: Common amino acids, 3-letter code; TAP, N/O-trifluoroacetyl -isopropyl ester; CAS Test: Chromazurol S-Test for Fe3+-complexing substances (Schwyn and Neilands, 1987) ; EDTA, ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid; FAB-MS, fast atom bombardement mass spectrom etry; ESI, electrospray ionization; GC/MS, gas chroma tograph coupled with a mass spectrometer; HPLC, high performance liquid chromatography; COSY, (NMR) correlation spectroscopy; DEPT, distortionless enhance ment by polarisation transfer; HMBC, ]H-detected multiple bond heteronuclear multiple quantum coher ence; H M QC, heteronuclear multiple quantum cor relation. * Part L X X II of the series "Bacterial Constituents". For part L X X I see Michalke et al., 1997 . Reprint requests to Prof. Dr. H. species, especially when siderophores with com plex structures can only be recognized by species specific receptor proteins. The chelators with the highest complexing constants are modified oligo peptides as the pyoverdins from fluorescent pseu domonads (Budzikiewicz, 1993) and catecholates derived from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid bound to amino acids, amino alcohols or aliphatic diamines. For entropic reasons highest efficiency in securing Fe3+ is to be expected when the three complexing sites are connected in one molecule in a way that they can occupy the octahedral positions to acco modate Fe3+-Several linear catecholate systems are known as agrobactin from Agrobacterium tumefaciens (Ong et al., 1979) , protochelin from a methanolotrophic bacterium (Taraz et al., 1990) and from Azotobacter vinelandii (Cornish and Page, 1995) or cepaciachelin from Burkholderia (Pseudomonas) cepacia (Barelmann et al., 1996) , but the siderophore with the (surpassed possibly only by alterobactin, Reid et al., 1993) (Loomis and Raymond, 1991) , viz. enterobactin (or enterochelin) from Escherichia coli (O 'Brian and Gibson, 1970) and from Salmonella typhimurium (Pollack and Neilands, 1970 ) has a cyclic structure where three Ser form a tri-lactonic macrocycle. We wish now to report a second ex ample where an analogous cycle is formed by three Thr units, viz. corynebactin (1). 
Dimeric or oligomeric oxo-complexes of Mo(VI) with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were prepared in aqueous solutions in the presence or not of K2S2O5 (acting as a reducing agent) in various conditions. The complexes were found to contain the cis-(Mo2O5)2+cis-(Mo2O5)2+ core and the ligands in the catecholate, semiquinonate or mixed valence oxidation form, depending on the reaction conditions and especially on the presence or not of the reductant. The isolated complexes in the presence or absence of reductant and the oxidation products in solution in the presence of air were studied via elemental, thermogravimetric and electrochemical analysis, Infrared, Raman, NMR and ESR spectroscopies and Electrospray Mass Spectra. The general molecular formula for the complexes is {[(PPh4)2(Mo2O5L2X2] · xH2O)}n, where the coordinated ligand’s L oxidation form varies and X involves coordinated water or hydroxyl group depending on the ligand oxidation state.
Ozone is known to yield hydroxyl radical, which may contribute to ozone-mediated lung injury. In the presence of hydroxyl radical, salicylate is hydroxylated to form 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). There is no evidence of enzymatic formation of 2,3-DHBA. We hypothesized that salicylate hydroxylation might be used as a biomarker indicating human exposure to ozone. Healthy, nonsmoking volunteers, 18 to 34 yr of age, were given acetylsalicylic acid (975 mg) or placebo orally 0.5 h before an exposure. Subjects were exposed to ozone (0.12 or 0.4 ppm) or filtered air in an environmental chamber for 2 h, while performing intermittent exercise. Results indicate significant decrements in FVC, FEV1.0, forced expiratory flows at 50% and 75% of FVC, and peak expiratory flow rate, and an increase in airway resistance, after exposure to 0.4 ppm ozone in comparison with air control (p < 0.05). Exposure to 0.4 ppm ozone also resulted in increased symptom numbers and severity (p < 0.05). When subjects were exposed t...
The present study examined the effect of fluvastatin on Cu(2+)-induced hydroxyl radical generation (*OH) in the extracellular fluid of rat myocardium using microdialysis technique (O system). Fluvastatin, an inhibitor of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, was administered at a dose of 5.0 mg/kg/day i.p. for 4 weeks. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the myocardium. When CuSO(4) was infused through the microdialysis probe, CuSO(4) clearly produced an increase in *OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA (R(2)=0.983). However, when corresponding experiments were performed with fluvastatin (5.0 mg/kg/day i.p. for 4 weeks) pretreated animals, small increases in the level of 2,3-DHBA products were observed. When LDL is oxidized by Cu(2+), Cu(2+) can be reduced to Cu(1+) by LDL. Fenton-type reactions in the presence of Cu(1+) yields highly cytotoxic *OH. These results suggest that Cu(2+)-induced *OH generation may be reduced by inhibiting LDL oxidation with fluvastatin.
Dopachrome tautomerase (DT) (EC 5.3.2.3) is a melanocyte-specific, membrane-associated, heat-labile, non-dialyzable, protease-sensitive factor which catalyzes the isomeric rearrangement of dopachrome to 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2-carboxylic acid (DHICA), apparently through a tautomerization reaction. Metal ions such as Cu, Ni, Co, Zn, Mn, Ca, Al, and Fe can also catalyze the dopachrome/DHICA isomerization. How is the reaction regulated in vivo? An attractive possibility would be that DT is a metalloenzyme. Here we present evidence that this may indeed be the case. Purified preparations or DT and tyrosinase, obtained from Cloudman S91 mouse melanoma cells. were assayed in the presence of a variety of metal chelators including EDTA (predominantly Ca and Mg). EGTA (predominantly Ca), phenylthiourea (PTU) (predominantly Cu), 2,2′-dipyridyl (predominantly Fe): 1,10-phenanthroline (predominantly Fe), and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (predominantly Fe). In addition. DT activity was assayed in the presence of two non-chelating structural analogs of 1,10-phenanthroline, Results were as follows: (i) iron chelators inhibited DT activity with no effects on tyrosinase activity; (ii) inhibition by the chelators was reversible with the addition of Ferrous iron; (iii) 1,10-phenanthroline pre-complexed to Ferrous iron was not inhibitory to DT: (iv) non-chelating analogs of phenanthroline were not inhibitory to DT; (v) PTU was inhibitory to tyrosinase but not DT; (vi) Ca2+ and Mg2+ chelators had little effect on either enzyme activity. Finally, studies with glycosylation inhibitors, glycosylase enzymes, and immobilized lectins, indicated that DT is a glycoprotein. The results suggest that DT is a metal-containing glycosylated enzyme, possibly with Ferrous iron at its catalytic center.
Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) is used as a selective pulmonary vasodilator, and often under conditions when a high fraction of inspired oxygen is indicated. However, little is known about the potential toxicity of iNO therapy with or without concomitant oxygen therapy. NO can combine with superoxide (O2-) to form peroxynitrite (ONOO-), which can in turn decompose to form hydroxyl radical (OH.). Both OH. and ONOO- are involved in various forms of lung injury. To begin evaluation of the effect of iNO under either normoxic or hyperoxic conditions on OH. and/or ONOO- formation, rats were exposed for 58 h to either 21% O2, 21% O2 + 10 parts per million (ppm) NO, 21% O2 + 100 ppm NO, 50% O2, 90% O2, 90% O2 + 10 ppm NO, or 90% O2 + 100 ppm NO. We used a salicylate hydroxylation assay to detect the effects of these exposures on lung OH. and/or ONOO- formation measured as the appearance of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). Exposure to 90% O2 and 90% O2 + 100 ppm NO resulted in significantly (p < 0.05) greater lung wet weight (1.99 +/- 0.14 g and 3.14 +/- 0.30 g, respectively) compared with 21% O2 (1.23 +/- 0.01 g). Exposure to 21% O2 + 100 ppm NO led to 2.5 times the control (21% O2 alone) 2,3 DHBA formation (p < 0.05) and exposure to 90% O2 led to 2.4 times the control 2,3-DHBA formation (p < 0.05). However, with exposure to both 90% O2 and 100 ppm NO, the 2,3-DHBA formation was no greater than the control condition (21% O2). Thus, these results indicate that, individually, both the hyperoxia and the 100 ppm NO led to greater salicylate hydroxylation, but that the combination of hyperoxia and 100 ppm NO led to less salicylate hydroxylation than either did individually. The production of OH. and/or ONOO- in the lung during iNO therapy may depend on the ratio of NO to O2.
The effects of orthophosphate on the adsorption of natural organic matter (NOM) on aluminum hydroxide were investigated using three organic compounds as surrogates, including humic acid (HA), phthalic acid, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). The adsorption of phthalic acid and 2,3-DHBA was very limited compared to that of HA, whereas their adsorption was reduced much more significantly than that of HA by phosphate. The efficiency of phosphate in reducing HA adsorption increased with increasing phosphate concentration. Phosphate adsorption was slightly reduced by phthalic acid and 2,3-DHBA but moderately suppressed by HA. The adjacent carboxylic groups mainly contributed to the adsorption of humic acid at low pH, while the adjacent phenol groups were responsible for the adsorption of humic acid at high pH. HPLC-SEC and SUVA analysis revealed that HA molecules with high molecular weight were adsorbed preferentially but were easily displaced by the specifically adsorbed phosphate. TM-AFM images revealed that the aggregation of HA molecules and the protonation of carboxylic groups at low pH facilitated the adsorption under acidic conditions. The presence of phosphate increases the coagulant dosage for NOM removal as some sites on the coagulant precipitates become utilized by phosphate.
Vibrio anguillarum is a marine bacterium that is present in many marine aquatic environments and that is the main cause of vibriosis in diverse wild and cultured fish species. Two siderophore-mediated iron uptake systems have been described in V. anguillarum. One, mediated by the siderophore anguibactin, is encoded by the pJM1-type plasmids and is restricted to serotype O1 strains. The second one is mediated by the vanchrobactin siderophore and is widespread in many strains belonging to different serotypes. Both siderophores belong to the catecholate group of siderophores, sharing a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid moiety. Vanchrobactin biosynthesis and transport genes are present in all strains examined although the siderophore is not produced in serotype O1 strains harbouring a pJM1-type plasmid. In these strains the insertion of an IS element in the main vanchrobactin biosynthetic gene vabF leads to the fact that only anguibactin is produced. From our current knowledge we can presume that vanchrobactin is the ancestral siderophore in this species and that the anguibactin-mediated system was later acquired during evolution, likely by horizontal transfer. The role of these two different iron uptake mechanisms in the biology, evolution and ecology of V. anguillarum is discussed although they are still far from being completely understood.
Norepinephrine promotes the growth of Salmonella enterica in vitro in iron-restricted conditions imposed by the iron-binding proteins serum transferrin and egg-white ovotransferrin by facilitating the release of bound iron and subsequent uptake by the bacteria. Moreover, significantly increased colonisation and systemic spread were observed in mouse and chicken models of S. enterica infection following pre-treatment of animals with norepinephrine. Both ent and tonB mutants showed no growth promotion by norepinephrine either in liquid medium containing serum or on plates containing hens' egg-white, indicating that the process is dependent both on the ability to synthesise enterobactin and on TonB-dependent uptake of iron. An entS mutant (formerly designated ybdA) and an iroB mutant behaved as wild type in both assays, showing that neither secretion of enterobactin nor conversion of enterobactin to salmochelin S4 is necessary for the effect. On the other hand, the presence of mutations in fes or iroD resulted in loss of growth promotion by norepinephrine in both assays. Since the fes and iroD genes encode enzymes that hydrolyse enterobactin and salmochelin S4 respectively to monomers, these data suggest that excretion of monomeric forms of these siderophores may be important for the uptake of iron released by norepinephrine from transferrin or ovotransferrin. A similar pattern of behaviour was observed with S. enterica serovar Typhimurium in a mouse model of infection; treatment of animals with norepinephrine before intragastric challenge resulted in increased intestinal colonisation and systemic spread of both wild-type and entS mutant strains, while the fes mutant was significantly attenuated in vivo. This suggests that excretion of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine may be essential for norepinephrine-dependent growth promotion in the iron-restricted environment of the infected host. Unlike the situation in vitro, however, tonB mutants of S. enterica serovars Typhimurium and Enteritidis behaved the same as wild type in mouse and chick infection models, respectively, suggesting that norepinephrine-dependent growth stimulation may also occur by TonB-independent uptake of the enterobactin precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Abstract The present study examined the antioxidant effect of histidine, a singlet oxygen (1O2) scavenger, on para-nonylphenol (an environmental estrogen-like chemical)-enhanced hydroxyl radical (·OH) generation induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in extracellular fluid of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer’s solution (0.5 nmol/μl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of ·OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Introduction of para-nonylphenol (10 μM) significantly enhanced MPP+-induced ·OH generation. Histidine (25 mM) decreased the para-nonylphenol-enhanced ·OH formation. Although the level of MPP+-induced ·OH formation trapped as DHBA after para-nonylphenol treatment increased, para-nonylphenol failed to increase either the level of dopamine and DHBA formation in the reserpinized animals. These results indicate that para-nonylphenol and MPP+-enhanced ·OH generation was based on 1O2 production, and histidine may have a preventive effect on para-nonylphenol and MPP+-induced ·OH generation in rat striatum.
Early studies by our group have shown that lead-induced hypertension (HTN) is closely related to enhanced activity of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, we have found indirect evidence that hydroxyl radical may be the most likely culprit in lead-exposed animals. In the present study, rat aortic endothelial cells were incubated in the presence of 0, 0.01, 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 ppm lead acetate for 1, 24, and 48 h. At the conclusion of the incubation period cells were harvested and the media were collected. Lipid peroxidation products were measured as malondialdehyde-thiobarbituric acid (MDA-TBA) in the medium and hydroxyl radical was measured as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3 DHBA) in the cells. After exposure to lead for 48 h, MDA-TBA generation and 2,3 DHBA formation were significantly increased. These data clearly demonstrate that lead exposure promotes hydroxyl radical generation and induces oxidative stress in isolated endothelial cells, mimicking the effects observed in lead-exposed animals. Enhanced inactivation of endothelium-derived nitric oxide by locally produced oxygen free radicals could contribute to endothelial dysfunction and HTN in lead-exposed animals.
The chromosomal iroBCDEN gene cluster first described for Salmonella enterica is involved in the uptake of catecholate-type siderophore compounds. An orthologous gene cluster has recently been detected in Escherichia coli strains which cause extraintestinal disease. This E. coli iroBCDEN gene cluster has an impact on virulence and has been reported to be located in a pathogenicity island on the chromosome. In this study we characterized an iro gene cluster of a uropathogenic E. coli isolate which is located on a transmissible plasmid related to the R64 plasmid of S. enterica. This cluster is highly homologous to the chromosomal iro cluster of E. coli. When introduced into an E. coli fepA cir fiu aroB mutant, IroN, but not IroBCDE, mediated the utilization of structurally related catecholate siderophores, including 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-l-serine, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-d-ornithine, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and enterochelin. This study supports the idea of an ongoing horizontal transfer of putative virulence factors and the mobilization of single virulence gene clusters, which lead to a modular assembly of virulence determinants such as pathogenicity islands.
Abstract Reactive oxygen species like hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) have been shown to serve as messengers in the induction of NF-κB and, hence, in the activation and replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in human cells. Several antioxidant compounds and iron chelators have been shown to interfere with both NF-κB and HIV-1 activation under oxidative stress. Because 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and its ethyl ester derivative (DHB-EE) are potent oral iron chelators, we started to investigate their effects on monocytes treated with increasing H 2 O 2 concentrations. These two compounds exert important protective effects against the cytotoxic effect of H 2 O 2 as 300 μM DHB or DHB-EE increased cell survival from 30 to 85%. The treatment of monocytes with increasing amounts of H 2 O 2 (from 0 to 3 mM) leads to the nuclear induction of NF-κB which is dose dependently inhibited by both DHB and DHB-EE. Addition of ferric ions to DHB only partially restores the NF-κB induction by H 2 O 2 , while this effect is almost completely restored by ferric ion addition to DHE-EE. Using spin trapping coupled to electron spin resonance, we have demonstrated that DHB and, to a lesser extent, DHB-EE trapped hydroxyl radicals produced by H 2 O 2 photolysis. These data demonstrate that small aromatic molecules harboring both iron-chelating and antioxidant properties like DHB and DHB-EE can effectively interfere with the deleterious effects of H 2 O 2 in monocytes where iron overload can be observed in HIV-1-infected patients.
Background: Tetradecyl 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate (ABG-001) derived from Chinese medicine, gentiana regescens Franch is a leading compound with NGF mimic effect, it can induce neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells via the IGF-1/PI3K/ERK signaling pathway. Thus, we inferred that this compound had anti-diabetic effect and used streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice to indicate it. Methods: ABG-001 was synthesized with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and tetradecyl alcohol under certain reaction conditions. STZ-induced diabetic mice were used to investigate anti-diabetic effect. Oral glucose tolerance test, insulin tolerance test, RT-PCR, Western blot, ELISA assays and histological section were performed to do the analysis of action mechanism. Results: ABG-001 showed anti-diabetic effect in STZ-induced diabetic mice. In diabetic mice, the anti-diabetic effect of ABG-001 at a dose of 20 mg/kg was equal with metformin at a dose of 140 mg/kg. Moreover, glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were significantly improved on diabetic mice. The plasma insulin, adiponectin and leptin were notably increased, whereas glucagon remarkably decreased. The gene expressions of adiponectin and leptin in adipose tissue, glucose transporter 4 and adiponectin receptor 1 in liver and gastrocnemius, ADR2 in hypothalamus and pancreas were obviously increased. Conclusion: ABG-001 exerts antidiabetic effects via modulation of insulin and adiponectin signaling pathways. This new type of molecule could be a promising drug candidate for treatment of diabetes.
We found a gamma-resorcylic acid (gamma-RA, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid) decarboxylase, as a novel enzyme applicable to carboxylation of resorcinol (RE, 1,3-dihydroxybenzene) to form gamma-RA, in a bacterial strain Rhizobium radiobacter WU-0108 isolated through the screening of gamma-RA degrading microorganisms. The activities for carboxylation of RE and decarboxylation of gamma-RA were detected in the cell-free extracts of R. radiobacter WU-0108 grown aerobically with gamma-RA. The enzyme, gamma-RA decarboxylase, was purified to homogeneity on SDS-PAGE through the steps of one ion-exchange chromatography and two kinds of hydrophobic chromatography. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 130 kDa by gel-filtration, and that of the subunit was determined to be 34 kDa by SDS-PAGE, suggesting that the enzyme is a homotetrameric structure. The enzyme catalyzed the decarboxylation of gamma-RA, but not alpha-RA or beta-RA. Without addition of any cofactors, the enzyme catalyzed the regio-selective carboxylation of RE to form gamma-RA, without formation of alpha-RA and beta-RA, and of catechol to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. In the presence of oxygen, this gamma-RA decarboxylase showed no decrease in both of the activities as for decarboxylation of gamma-RA and carboxylation of RE, different from other decarboxylases reported so far. The gene, rdc, encoding the gamma-RA decarboxylase was cloned into Escherichia coli, sequenced, and subjected to over-expression. The deduced amino acid sequence of the rdc gene consists of 327 amino acid residues corresponding to 34 kDa protein, and shows 42% and 30% identity to those of a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase from Aspergillus niger and a 5- carboxyvanillate decarboxylase from Sphingomonas paucimobilis SYK-6. A site-directed mutagenesis study revealed the two histidine residues at positions of 164 and 218 in Rdc to be essential for the catalytic activities of decarboxylation of gamma-RA and carboxylation of RE.
Indole and its derivatives form a class of toxic recalcitrant environmental pollutants. The growth of Aspergillus niger was inhibited by very low concentrations (0.005 to 0.02%) of indole, even when 125- to 500-fold excess glucose was present in the medium. When 0.02% indole was added, the fungus showed a lag phase for about 30 h and the uptake of glucose was inhibited. Indole was metabolized by a new pathway via indoxyl (3-hydroxyindole), N-formylanthranilic acid, anthranilic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and catechol, which was further degraded by ortho cleavage. The enzymes N-formylanthranilate deformylase, anthranilate hydroxylase, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate decarboxylase, and catechol dioxygenase were induced by indole as early as after 5 h of growth, and their activities were demonstrated in a cell-free system.
—Although supportive therapy can be efficacious during the first few days after paraquat ingestion, thought must be given to trying to ameliorate the subsequent pulmonary fibrosis that usually occurs in the latter stages and that we believe, in part, may be a consequence of peroxidative damage to tissue. Possibly, circulating blood cells may participate in cyclic oxidation-reduction reactions with paraquat. We considered this possibility but failed to detect respiratory burst products when paraquat ranging from 2.5mM to 50mM was incubated with human blood neutrophils. Other antioxidants, eg, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, might be more effective than vitamin E. It normally takes at least a few weeks to achieve tissue levels beyond that observed in the normal range with vitamin E therapy. 1,2 We were concerned that spontaneous generation of malondialdehyde might occur in the serum. On obtaining the serum samples, we completely filled the containers and immediately froze the specimens
Summary: Siderophore-negative mutants of Azotobacter vinelandii were generated by insertional mutagenesis with a Tn5 construct containing a promoterless luxAB fusion. The use of this construct, delivered on a suicide plasmid by conjugation, allowed the selection of mutations in iron-repressible genes by virtue of the expression of iron-regulated bioluminescence. Although many iron-regulated mutants were selected, only a few could be easily identified as defective in siderophore production. These included a non-fluorescent azotobactin-negative phenotype (strain D27), and strain F196, which had lost the ability to produce the catechol siderophores azotochelin and aminochelin as well as the lower-affinity chelator 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Strain D27 had normal production of catechol siderophores, while strain F196 produced 2·5 times as much azotobactin as the wild-type. Two other mutants demonstrated normal catechol levels and either low or relatively unrepressed azotobactin levels. Transformation of the DNA from strain F196 into another spontaneously obtained azotobactin-negative strain (UA1) resulted in strain P100, which was unable to produce the known siderophores. Unlike the wild-type and other siderophore-deficient mutants, this strain was unable to grow in the presence of the iron chelator ethylenediamine di-(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid) (EDDHA; 50 mUg ml-1) unless stored iron was carried over in the inoculum. Strain P100 did grow on iron-limited medium containing EDDHA when the catechol or azotobactin siderophores were provided exogenously. However, strain P100 gave a positive result in the chrome azurol-S assay (CAS), a non-specific assay for siderophores. The CAS activity was iron-repressible and strain P100 was able to grow and accumulate more iron from the insoluble iron minerals FeS, vivianite and Fe3O4 than was available by simple diffusion or exchange. Therefore, it appears that iron-limited A. vinelandii produces an as yet unidentified low-affinity non-conventional (non-catechol, non-hydroxamate) siderophore.
There is expectation that newer attenuated S. typhi mutants prepared by more precise genetic techniques may overcome the drawbacks of the Ty2 la strain. Stocker and coworkers (13, 14) have developed two attenuated S. typhi strains that are being proposed as prototypes ofthe next generation oflive oral typhoid vaccines. Vaccine strain 54 1Ty was derived from wild S. typhi strain CDC1O-80 (phage type A) by transducing deletions in two separate genes, each previously characterized in S. typhimurium and affecting a different biosynthetic pathway (13) (14) (15) . The deletion mutations ofgene aroA create a requirement for several aromatic compounds, including two, p-aminobenzoic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, which are not mammalian metabolites (13) (14) (15) . The second deletion mutation, at gene purA, causes a specific requirement for adenine (or an assimilable compound such as adenosine) (14) (15) (16) . These nutritional requirements render S. typhi mutant 541Ty unable to maintain growth in mammalian tissues. A third mutation, of the hisG gene, leads to a histidine requirement. Although this last mutation does not affect virulence, it provides an additional biochemical marker to differentiate the vaccine strains clearly from wild S. typhi. Strain 543Ty is a spontaneously derived mutant of 54ITy that lacks the Vi polysaccharide capsular antigen; in all other ways this Vi-negative mutant is identical to 541Ty. The method of preparation of strains 54lTy and 543Ty and their genetic characteristics are described in detail elsewhere (14) . This report summarizes the first clinical studies in man to assess the safety, infectivity, immunogenicity, and genetic stability in vivo of these oral typhoid vaccine strains. medical history, physical examination, electrocardiogram, chest radiograph, psychological examination, and laboratory tests including complete blood count, blood chemistry analyses, liver function tests, and serologic tests for syphilis, hepatitis B surface antigen, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Before vaccination, stool specimens were examined for bacterial enteropathogens, ova and parasites. After a 48-h period of acclimation on the ward, volunteers (4-10 per dose per vaccine strain) ingested the vaccine. Studies were carried out sequentially with increasing doses being given to three separate cohorts; results of completed studies with lower doses were reviewed before proceeding to a higher dose.
In addition, we have found indirect evidence that hydroxyl radical may be the most likely culprit in lead-exposed animals. In the present study, rat aortic endothelial cells were incubated in the presence of 0, 0.01, 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 ppm lead acetate for 1, 24, and 48 h. At the conclusion of the incubation period cells were harvested and the media were collected. Lipid peroxidation products were measured as malondialdehyde-thiobarbituric acid (MDA-TBA) in the medium and hydroxyl radical was measured as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3 DHBA) in the cells. After exposure to lead for 48 h, MDA-TBA generation and 2,3 DHBA formation were significantly increased. These data clearly demonstrate that lead exposure promotes hydroxyl radical generation and induces oxidative stress in isolated endothelial cells, mimicking the effects observed in lead-exposed animals. Enhanced inactivation of endothelium-derived nitric oxide by locally produced oxygen free radicals could contribute to endothelial dysfunction and HTN in lead-exposed animals. O ral administration of low levels of lead for 3 months has been shown to cause severe sustained hypertension (HTN) in genetically normotensive rats, 1-6 without affecting renal function or structure. 7 In a series of studies, we have demonstrated that lead-induced HTN is associated with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) in this model. [3] [4] [5] [6] This supposition has been based upon the finding of increased lipid peroxidation 4 -6 and tissue nitrotyrosine abundance, which are footprints of excess ROS activity. 6 We hypothesized that increased ROS activity contributed to HTN by enhancing inactivation of endothelium-derived nitric oxide. In support of this hypothesis, we have shown that correction of oxidative stress by certain antioxidants results in amelioration of HTN and enhanced nitric oxide (NO) availability in lead-exposed rats. 4, 6 In an earlier study, we showed normalization of blood pressure and urinary excretion of NO metabolites with the reputed hydroxyl radical scavenger, dimethylthiourea (DMTU) (unpublished data). However, neither superoxide dismutase (SOD), a superoxide scavenger enzyme, nor catalase, a hydrogen peroxide scavenging enzyme, significantly affected these parameters.
The chromosomal iroBCDEN gene cluster first described for Salmonella enterica is involved in the uptake of catecholate-type siderophore compounds. An orthologous gene cluster has recently been detected in Escherichia coli strains which cause extraintestinal disease. This E. coli iroBCDEN gene cluster has an impact on virulence and has been reported to be located in a pathogenicity island on the chromosome. In this study we characterized an iro gene cluster of a uropathogenic E. coli isolate which is located on a transmissible plasmid related to the R64 plasmid of S. enterica. This cluster is highly homologous to the chromosomal iro cluster of E. coli. When introduced into an E. coli fepA cir fiu aroB mutant, IroN, but not IroBCDE, mediated the utilization of structurally related catecholate siderophores, including 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-L-serine, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-D-ornithine, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and enterochelin. This study supports the idea of an ongoing horizontal transfer of putative virulence factors and the mobilization of single virulence gene clusters, which lead to a modular assembly of virulence determinants such as pathogenicity islands.
In the present study, we applied a suppressive subtractive hybridization strategy to extraintestinal E. coli strains and detected a gene cluster exhibiting high homology to the E. coli iroBCDEN genes. Unlike the known iroBCDEN E. coli cluster, which is located on a chromosomal PAI of uropathogenic E. coli, the iro gene cluster described here is part of a transmissible plasmid related to Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium plasmid R64. The characterization of the border revealed the presence of several IS elements. Here we present evidence that iroN mediates the uptake of catecholate siderophores such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-D-ornithine (DHBO), and enterochelin. The data of this study further emphasize the impact of horizontal transfer in the distribution of virulence factors and show that even parts of chromosomal PAIs can be mobilized individually and thus contribute to a modular organization of virulence determinants such as pathogenicity islands.
Methods: ABG-001 was synthesized with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and tetradecyl alcohol under certain reaction conditions. STZ-induced diabetic mice were used to investigate anti-diabetic effect. Oral glucose tolerance test, insulin tolerance test, RT-PCR, Western blot, ELISA assays and histological section were performed to do the analysis of action mechanism.
Siderophore-negative mutants of Azofobacfer aiwl&i were generated by insertional mutagenesis with a Tn5 construct containing a promoterless l u A B fusion. The use of this construct, delivered on a suicide plasmid by corrjugation, allowed the selection of mutations in iron-repressible genes by virtue of the expression of ironregulated bioluminescence. Although many iron-regulated mutants were selected, only a few could be easily identified as defective in siderophore production. These included a non-fluorescent azotobactin-negative phenotype (strain D27), and strain F1%, which had lost the ability to produce the catechol siderophores azotochelin and aminochelin as well as the lower-afhity chelator 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Strain D27 had normal production of catechol siderophores, while strain F1% produced 2.5 times as much aotobactin as the wild-type. Two other mutants demonstrated normal catechol levels and either low or relatively unrepressed azotobactin levels. Transformation of the DNA from strain F1% into another spontaneously obtained azotobactin-negative strain (UAI) resulted in strain PIOO, which was unable to produce the known siderophores. Unlike the wild-type and other siderophore-deficient mutants, this strain was unable to grow in the presence of the iron chelator ethylenediamine di-(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid) (EDDHA; 50 pg ml-l) unless stored iron was carried over in the inoculum. Strain PI00 did grow on iron-limited medium containing EDDHA when the catechol or azotobactin siderophores were provided exogenously. However, strain PlOO gave a positive result in the chrome azurol-S assay . (CAS), a non-specilic assay for siderophores. The CAS activity was iron-repressible and strain PI00 was able to grow and accumulate more iron from the insoluble iron minerals FeS, vivianite and Fe30, than was available by simple diffusion or exchange. Therefore, it appears that iron-limited A. v k h & produces an as yet unidentified low-affinity non-conventional (non-catechol, non-hydroxamate) siderophore.
(+)-Syringaresinol di-O-s-D-glucoside, a lignan from Eleutherococcus [Siberian ginseng, Eleutherococcus senticosus (Rupr. et Maxim.) Maxim. = Acanthopanax senticosus (Rupr. et Maxim.) Harms] and Cortex eucommiae (Eucommia ulmoides Oliv.), enhanced s-endorphin levels in rat plasma, which can provide an immune-enhancing effect. Mauritianin, a flavonoid from Herba catharanthi (Catharanthus roseus (L.) G. Don = Vinca rosea L.), enhanced the 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-suppressed delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction in mice, indicating that mauritianin may augment the resistance of the immune system to cancer. The 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid from periwinkle (Vinca minor L.) showed a strong radical-scavenging activity, which is associated with a lower risk of cancer. Arctigenin and trachelogenin, lignans from Caulis trachelospermi [Trachelospermum jasminoides (Lindl.) Lern.], were shown to have a high inhibitory effect on TPA-induced ear edema, which reflects an antitumor-promoting effect in two-stage carcinogenesis. Also, Caulis trachelospermi contains luteolin, which has an anticlastogenic effect on micronucleus induction in γ-ray-irradiated mice.
Culture filtrates of virulent Nocardia asteroides GUH-2 after growth in acetate minimal medium displayed an absorbance maximum at 320 nm. After isolation by polyamide extraction and anion chromatography, a UV-active compound with this absorbance was shown to be 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) by nuclear magnetic resonance, gas chromatographic, and mass spectrometric techniques. DHB production under several culture conditions was quantified by a standard high-pressure liquid chromatography assay. Under iron deficiency conditions, N. asteroides GUH-2 excreted up to 11 mg of DHB per liter into the culture medium. No DHB was detected when N. asteroides GUH-2 was grown in an iron-rich medium. With the less virulent strain N. asteroides 10905, DHB was not found under any condition tested.
Normal human serum contains an enterochelin-specific antibody which presumably acts with transferrin to hinder iron assimilation by enterochelin-producing pathogens. This antibody can be isolated from serum by sodium sulfate fractionation or affinity chromatography by employing an enterochelin-derived ligand (2,3-dihydroxy-N-benzoyl-L-serine) attached to aminohexyl Sepharose 4B. In assays of iron uptake by whole cells, the antibody inhibited enterochelin-directed uptake but not that mediated by citrate or ferrichrome. Also, the growth stimulatory effect of enterochelin on an Ent- strain of Escherichia coli was blocked by the immunoglobulin. This antibody has a high affinity for enterochelin; various elution procedures employing high salt concentrations and low pH failed to remove it from affinity columns. Elution with 3 M sodium thiocyanate or 13 mM 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid proved successful. Two pieces of evidence indicate the enterochelin-specific antibody is primarily of the immunoglobulin A (IgA) isotype. It could be removed from serum with goat antihuman IgA and was present only in sodium sulfate fractions of serum known to contain IgA.
Abstract A method has been developed for the spectrophotometric determination of siderophores using flow-injection analysis (FIA) based on the reaction of siderophores with the ternary complex Eriochrome Cyanine R-Fe(III)-cetyltrimethylammonium bromide. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxynaphthalene, and tolypocine were used as the model iron-binding ligands. The calibration curve for one of the siderophores (tolypocine) is linear in the concentration range 2.6 × 10−6–1.5 × 10−4M. The determination limit (10σ) for tolypocine was 2.6 × 10−6M. The applicability of the method was demonstrated on the determination of the complexation ability of siderophores produced by some entomopathogenic fungi. Samples can be analysed at a rate of 30 samples per hour.
The potentiation in the cytotoxic effect of antineoplastic agent hydroxyurea (HU) from the non-toxic concentration on P388 murine lymphocytic leukemia cells is observed with the hydrophobic iron-chelating agents, 2,2-bipyridine (bipyridyl) and 1,10-phenanthroline in a concentration and time dependent manner. However EDTA, EGTA, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DBA), Rhodotorulic acid, 8-hydroxyquinoline (8-Hq), catechin and Desferal, and other chelators failed to show sensitization of these tumor cells towards HU. The potentiation in the cytotoxic activity of HU in combination with the bipyridyl was found to be reversible but was maintained when the drug exposed cells were washed and retreated with the non-toxic concentrations of HU or bipyridyl. The presence of Fe++ blocked completely the cytotoxic action of HU alone and a combination with iron-chelator, and partially reversed the inhibition induced by HU and bipyridyl. These findings suggest that the hydrophobic iron-chelators affect the membrane-mediated transfer, localisation and transient intracellular chelatable iron pools. As a consequence of this, the regulatory role mediated by iron on the overall activity of ribonucleotide reductase enzyme is disturbed leading to a conclusive imbalance in DNA biosynthesis.
Oxidant-induced injury of the pulmonary microvasculature reportedly contributes to an increase in microvascular permeability and pulmonary hypertension, both of which are principal features of acute lung injury (ALI). We tested the hypothesis that antioxidant therapy with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB), initiated in awake sheep after the development of sepsis-induced ALI, would ameliorate the progression of these lesions. DHB has many actions that suggested to us the potential for demonstrating benefit in ALI complicating sepsis; it is a nontoxic hydroxyl-radical scavenger that also inhibits the cyclooxygenase pathway and acts as a weak iron chelator. In preliminary experiments, we demonstrated that pretreatment with DHB prevented an increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressure, plasma thromboxane A2, measured as its metabolite thromboxane B2, and lymph total protein clearance that otherwise followed an infusion of zymosan-activated plasma (ZAP) in sheep. In subsequent experiments, 12 additional sheep were rendered septic by cecal ligation and perforation. Twenty-four to 36 h after cecal ligation and perforation, an increase in lung microvascular permeability was confirmed, because pulmonary lymph flow had increased by 82% while the mean lymph-to-plasma total protein ratio was unchanged from baseline. At this point, six sheep were then treated with parenteral DHB and six with DHB vehicle for the subsequent 24 h. In contrast to the demonstrated benefit of DHB pretreatment in preventing ALI secondary to an infusion of ZAP, the progressive increase in lymph total protein clearance that complicated septic lung injury in the DHB vehicle group throughout this 24-h study period was not ameliorated in the DHB treatment group. However, DHB did prevent a modest increase in mean pulmonary arterial pressures that was demonstrated in the DHB vehicle group throughout this 24-h treatment period. Although pretreatment prevented ALI after a ZAP infusion, we conclude that DHB only incompletely modified disease progression when administered after the onset of sepsis-induced ALI because it ameliorated the pulmonary hypertensive response without concurrently modifying an increase in lung microvascular fluid flux.
Azospirillum lipoferum M was found to produce catechol-type of siderophores under iron-starved conditions. Chemical characterization of siderophores revealed the presence of salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), and 3,5-DHBA conjugated with threonine and lysine. Siderophore production was found to be maximum after 28 h of growth. In addition to their established role in iron transport, the siderophores exhibited antimicrobial activity against various bacterial and fungal isolates.
Background and Purpose Brain mitochondria have a substantial capacity to generate reactive oxygen species after ischemia when the components of the respiratory chain are reduced and molecular oxygen is present. We tested the hypothesis that brain mitochondria in vivo produce reactive oxygen species after ischemia/reperfusion (IR) in rats at a rate sufficient to escape endogenous antioxidant defenses. Methods Ischemia-dependent production of hydroxyl radical in the hippocampus of the anesthetized rat was monitored with the use of intracerebral microdialysis. Transient global ischemia was produced by bilateral carotid artery occlusion and hemorrhagic hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 35 mm Hg for 15 minutes followed by reperfusion for 60 minutes. Salicylic acid was infused into the hippocampus during the experiments, and changes in the recovery of its hydroxylated product, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), were used to assess the effects of inhibitors of mitochondrial complex I on formation of ...
The bacterial growth in the tissues of C3D2F1 male mice was measured during an experimental infection with two Salmonella typhimurium strains (high virulence, strain 2386/74; low virulence, strain L15403). This experimental model was used for evaluation of the pathogenesis in normal and iron-overloaded animals. Acute iron overload was accomplished by intramuscular injections of chelated iron (with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and citrate) with a single dose of 100 micrograms of iron per mouse. Bacteria were given intraperitoneally 1 h after the iron injection. Serum iron levels, transferrin levels, and the bacteria counts in blood and liver were measured simultaneously in all animals. There was a significant increase of bacterial growth in all tissues in the iron-treated animals. Iron abolished the normal clearance of the bacteria with low virulence from the blood. This study demonstrates that a general iron overload, as determined by an increased serum iron level, resulting from preinjection of iron, enhances bacterial growth.
Two new phenolic glycosides, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester 3-O-beta-D-glucopyranosyl-(1-6)-beta-D-glucopyranoside (1) and 2,5-dihydroxylbenzofuran 5-O-beta-D-xylopyranosyl-(1-6)-O-beta-D-glucopyranoside (2), were isolated as the minor chemical constituents from the roots of Gentiana rigescens, along with 15 known compounds. Their structures were elucidated by detailed spectroscopic analysis, including 1D, 2D NMR and chemical method. All of these compounds were isolated for the first time from the title plant. Moreover, compounds 1 and 2 were tested for the antifungal activities on three plant pathogens Peronophythora litchi, Glomerella cingulata, and Glorosprium musarum. (C) 2009 Ying Jun Zhang. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Chinese Chemical Society. All rights reserved.
Abstract We investigated the mechanism of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) action on myocardial injury in relation to hydroxyl radical (OH) formation. Isolated rat hearts were perfused with a concentration of H2O2 (300 μM) known to produce cardiac injury. Perfusion of H2O2 for 15 min caused severe myocardial dysfunction, morphological damage. ATP depletion, and lipid peroxidation. Hydrogen peroxide concentration in the coronary effluent was reduced approximately 40% reflecting a myocardial H2O2 consumption of 12.7 ± 0.9 μmol/15 min/g wet tissue (n = 12). One of the OH-generated derivatives, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), formed from reaction with salicylic acid, was detected in the coronary effluent by high-performance liquid chromatography at 23.16 ± 4.05 nmol/15 min/g wet tissue. Catalase (200 U/ml, n = 6) added to the perfusate attenuated all parameters of myocardial injury by eliminating H2O2 from the perfusate, and thus OH was not detected in the effluent. Deferoxamine (5 mM, n = 7) added to the perfusate reduced morphological damage and lipid peroxidation, but not dysfunction or ATP depletion. Deferoxamine significantly reduced OH production; 2,3-DHBA was 5.22 ± 3.56 nmol/15 min/g wet tissue. The present study provides evidence that OH is produced in the H2O2-perfused heart. The adverse H2O2-mediated myocardial outcomes documented in this study appear to arise from both OH-dependent mechanisms.
Background Nicorandil has been reported to induce cardioprotection by opening the mitochondrial KATP channels. However, whether nicorandil affects reactive oxygen species is unclear. Methods and Results The hearts of male Sprague-Dawley rats were excised and perfused on a Langendorff apparatus with Krebs-Henseleit solution with a gas mixture of 95% O2 and 5% CO2. 1 mmol/L of nicorandil was given 10 min before ischemia. Left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP, mmHg), ±dP/dt (mmHg/s) and coronary flow (ml/min) were continuously monitored. All hearts were perfused for a total of 120 min consisting of a 30 min pre-ischemic period, followed by a 30 min global ischemia and 60 min reperfusion with and without 5-hydroxydecanoic acid sodium salt (5-HD), a mitochondrial KATP channel blocker. The concentrations of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), an indicator of hydroxyl radicals, in the perfusate during reperfusion period were also measured. Nicorandil significantly improved LVDP and ±dP/dt, and increased coronary flow during reperfusion. Pretreatment with 5-HD abolished the improvement of LVDP and ±dP/dt, and the increase in coronary flow induced by nicorandil. Nicorandil significantly attenuated the concentrations of 2,3-DHBA during reperfusion, which were restored by 5-HD. Conclusion Nicorandil is protective against post-ischemic left ventricular dysfunction in association with opening the mitochondrial KATP channels, decreasing hydroxyl radicals and increasing coronary flow in the isolated rat heart. (Circ J 2006; 70: 1650 - 1654)
Lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs) are copper-dependent enzymes that perform oxidative cleavage of recalcitrant polysaccharides. We have purified and characterized a recombinant family AA9 LPMO from Gloeophyllum trabeum , Gt LPMO9B, which is active on both cellulose and xyloglucan. Activity of the enzyme was tested in the presence of three different reductants: ascorbic acid, gallic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). When using standard aerobic conditions typically used in LPMO experiments, the former two reductants could drive LPMO catalysis whereas 2,3-DHBA could not. In agreement with the recent discovery that H 2 O 2 can drive LPMO catalysis, we show that gradual addition of H 2 O 2 allowed LPMO activity at very low, sub-stoichiometric (relative to products formed) reductant concentrations. Most importantly, we found that while 2,3-DHBA is not capable of driving the LPMO reaction under standard aerobic conditions, it can do so in the presence of externally added H 2 O 2 . At alkaline pH, 2,3-DHBA is able to drive the LPMO reaction without externally added H 2 O 2 and this ability overlaps entirely with endogenous generation of H 2 O 2 by Gt LPMO9B-catalyzed oxidation of 2,3-DHBA. These findings support the notion that H 2 O 2 is a co-substrate of LPMOs, and provide insight into how LPMO reactions depend on, and may be controlled by, the choice of pH and reductant. IMPORTANCE Lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases promote enzymatic depolymerization of lignocellulosic materials by microorganisms, due to their ability to oxidatively cleave recalcitrant polysaccharides. The properties of these copper-dependent enzymes are currently of high scientific and industrial interest. We describe a previously uncharacterized fungal LPMO and show how reductants, which are needed to prime the LPMO by reducing Cu(II) to Cu(I) and for supplying electrons during catalysis, affect enzyme efficiency and stability. The results support claims that H 2 O 2 is a natural co-substrate for LPMOs by demonstrating that when using certain reductants, catalysis can only be driven by H 2 O 2 and not by O 2 . Furthermore, we show how auto-inactivation resulting from endogenous generation of H 2 O 2 in the LPMO-reductant system may be prevented. Finally, we identified a reductant that leads to enzyme activation without any endogenous H 2 O 2 generation, allowing for improved control of LPMO reactivity and providing a valuable tool for future LPMO research.
Summary. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) inhibits the second wave of platelet aggregation, release of serotonin, and malonaldehyde production. The effect is concentration dependent and reversible in vitro and in vivo. 50% inhibition of platelet aggregation induced in vitro with 70 μM adrenaline was obtained with 1.5 mM 2,3-DHB. Malonaldehyde production was inhibited by 50% with 0.4 mM 2,3-DHB. Serotonin release was 50% inhibited by 50% with 0.08 mM 2,3-DHB. Neither desferrioxamine nor various benzoic acid derivatives with iron-chelating properties showed the effect. Only benzoic acid derivatives with the potential to terminate free radical reactions through the formation of an ortho- or paraquinone structure inhibit the second wave of platelet aggregation. These studies support the concept that the second wave of platelet aggregation is mediated through free radical reactions.
Abstract An application of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection to investigate the hydroxyl radical production in the testes of cadmium-treated mice is described. Salicylate was used as a free radical trapping agent to trap hydroxyl radicals in vivo in the testes of cadmium-treated mice. Using this HPLC method, the products formed by hydroxyl radical addition to salicylate, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihyroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA), were separated and quantitated. It was found that the concentrations of both 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA in the testes of cadmium-treated mice were significantly higher than that without the treatment of cadmium. This study demonstrated that the tissue damage induced by cadmium was the result of the increase in the production of hydroxyl radicals.
Abstract ::: Studies of the Protein Interaction Network Required for Enterobactin Biosynthesis in Escherichia coli ::: ::: Sofia Khalil, Ph.D. ::: Concordia University, 2010 ::: ::: Siderophores are small-molecule iron chelators that many bacteria synthesize and secrete in order to survive in iron-depleted environments. In Escherichia coli, biosynthesis of the siderophore molecule enterobactin requires the activities of six enzymes, EntA-EntF. These enzymes function sequentially to produce enterobactin molecule in the cytoplasm. The enterobactin biosynthesis pathway is divided into two modules. The first module involves the conversion of chorismate to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), and requires the activities of EntC, EntB (N-terminal domain) and EntA. The second module involves non-ribosomal peptide synthesis (NRPS) such that three molecules of 2,3-DHB are condensed with three molecules of L-serine to form the siderophore. The NRPS module requires the activities of EntE, EntB (C-terminal domain), EntD and EntF. ::: The overall goal of my research project is characterization of the enterobactin biosynthetic enzyme EntE. EntE catalyzes the activation of 2,3-DHB via adenylation producing DHB-AMP. I am interested in addressing the following questions: (i) How does EntE bind its 2,3-DHB substrate? (ii) How does it interact with its upstream and downstream partner proteins: EntA, which produces 2,3-DHB, and EntB, which uses the EntE product (DHB-AMP) as a substrate, respectively? My thesis is divided into three research-related chapters: ::: The first research chapter focused on the interaction of EntE with its substrate, 2,3-DHB, as well as the characterization of EntE-EntB interaction in the presence and absence of 2,3-DHB. A significant change in EntB conformation was observed upon the interaction with EntE when in the presence of 2,3-DHB. In the pull-down assay, EntB as bait protein pulled down more EntE in the presence of exogenous 2,3-DHB. We conclude from this chapter that the ligand-loaded state of the protein was necessary for efficient protein-protein interaction. ::: The second research chapter involves the characterization of a novel interaction between EntE and its upstream partner protein EntA. A significant increase in EntE activity was observed upon adding EntA. Furthermore, EntA reduces the FRET signal of EntE-bound 2,3-DHB in a saturable manner with increasing EntA concentrations. Using this fluorescence binding assay at 20 °C revealed a positive cooperativity in EntA-EntE interaction with Hill coefficient greater than one. The AUC experiments showed that EntA conformation is highly dependent on its concentration. In conclusion, the results of this chapter suggest that EntA-EntE interaction likely induces remodeling of EntE active site, resulting in the observed increase in EntE catalysis. ::: In the third research chapter, the EntA-EntE interaction interface was characterized using phage display. Based on the interaction interface predicted by phage display data, EntA variants containing single-site and double-site mutations were created (Q64A, A68Q, and Q64A/A68Q). Our in vitro biophysical techniques and growth phenotype experiments revealed that EntA (Q64A) and EntA (Q64A/A68Q) mutations have a more pronounced effect than EntA (A68Q) mutation on disruption of the EntA-EntE interaction interface.
Administration of neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine (8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally x 4 times, at 2 hr intervals) caused a significant decrease in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and an increase in 3-methoxytyramine levels in the striatum along with a decrease in serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels in the striatum and hippocampus. In addition, the methamphetamine treatment caused an increase in rat rectal temperature. Intraventricular injection of salicylate 105 min. after the last injection of methamphetamine produced an increase in 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the striatum and hippocampus. Moreover, the ratio of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to salicylate was significantly increased in the striatum, but not in the hippocampus. These results indicate that the hydroxyl radical may play an important role in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in rat striatum and that its formation may be the result of methamphetamine-induced release of dopamine.
Abstract The effect of glycine on 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical ( OH) formation in the extracellular fluid of rat striatum were investigated. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in rat striatum. MPP+ (5 mmol/L) produced an increase in OH formation. When glycine (1 mmol/L) was infused into the rat striatum through a microdialysis probe after MPP+ treatment, the marked in the level of 2,3-DHBA was observed in the brain dialysate. However, in the presence of MK-801 (100 μmol/L), a non competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), glycine failed to increase the 2,3-DHBA formation by MPP+. When corresponding experiments were performed with nitro-L arginine (L-NNA) (1 mmol/L), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, same result was obtained. These results suggest that MPP+-induced OH generation may modulated by glycine via NMDA receptor in rat striatum. This increase might be explained because of the presence of a glutaminergic tonic action
Siderophore production, presence of iron-regulated outer membrane proteins and siderophore specificity was determined among 17 isolates of Aeromonas salmonicida subsp. salmonicida obtained from Spain and Scotland. All grew in the presence of ethylenediamine di(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid) (EDDA) and siderophore production was detected using chrome azurol S (CAS) agar, confirming the presence of a high-affinity siderophore iron-uptake mechanism. The Arnow test confirmed that all isolates produced a catechol siderophore. Cross-feeding assays with indicator bacteria showed the absence of anguibactin, enterobactin, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and the hydroxamate siderophore, aerobactin, in the iron-restricted supernants of a representative isolate which cross fed 15/17 A. salmonicida isolates tested. Sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) showed the presence of the same 2 major iron-regulated outer membrane proteins (IROMPs) in all isolates when grown in iron-restricted conditions and siderophore strain specificity as assessed by cross-feeding experiments was not apparent. Thus, with respect to IROMP and siderophore production A. salmonicida appears to be a homogeneous species.
OBJECTIVE ::: During off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery, the heart is subjected to ischemia and reperfusion. The authors hypothesized that the volatile anesthetics are as effective as ischemic preconditioning (IPC) in preserving myocardial function during off-pump cardiac surgery, and this effect is because of multiple mechanisms of action. Therefore, the effects of enflurane with its calcium inhibition and antioxidative properties were compared with mechanical IPC in preserving myocardial cellular markers. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: A prospective, randomized, controlled, and partly blinded study. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: A tertiary care university hospital. ::: ::: ::: PARTICIPANTS ::: Twenty-five patients undergoing elective single-graft OPCAB surgery. ::: ::: ::: INTERVENTIONS ::: Patients were randomized into 3 groups: (1) control (n = 8), (2) a single 5-minute ischemia/reperfusion interval of IPC before coronary occlusion (n = 9), and (3) 1.6% enflurane anesthesia 15 minutes before and during graft attachment (n = 8). Arterial and coronary sinus venous blood were analyzed for biochemical indices of ischemia and hydroxyl radical generation. ::: ::: ::: MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS ::: Although the hemodynamic changes were small, myocardial lactate production in the control group increased by 120%, whereas in the enflurane group it decreased significantly (p < 0.01) compared with the control and IPC groups. Oxygen utilization in the control group was 44% higher (p < 0.03), and there was also a larger release of the hydroxyl radical-dependent adduct 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (225% increase, p < 0.05) compared with both study groups. During reperfusion, initial anterior wall hypokinesis by TEE was observed, with slow recovery during reperfusion compared with early recovery in both study groups. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Coronary occlusion during OPCAB surgery results in increased production of ischemia-related metabolic products. The application of methods such as IPC or volatile anesthesia appears to reduce the metabolic deficit, free-radical production, and physiologic changes.
Abstract We investigated the efficacy of histidine on iron (II)-induced hydroxyl radical ( . OH) generation in extracellular fluid of the rat myocardium using a flexibly mounted microdialysis technique (O system). Rats were anesthetized and a microdialysis probe was implanted in the left ventricular, followed by infusion of sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μL/min) to detect the generation . OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Iron (II) clearly produced a concentration-dependent increase in . OH formation. A positive linear correlation between iron (II) and the formation of 2,3-DHBA (R 2 = 0.987) was observed. However, histidine (25 mM) was infused through a microdialysis probe; iron (II) failed to increase the 2,3-DHBA formation obtained. To examine the effect of histidine on ischemia-reperfusion of the myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, a marked elevation of the levels of 2,3-DHBA was observed in the heart dialysate. When corresponding experiments were performed with histidine (25 mM)-pretreated animals, histidine prevented the ischemia-reperfusion induced . OH generation trapped as 2,3-DHBA. These results indicate that histidine protects the myocardium against ischemia-reperfusion damage by . OH generation.
A new cyclic dipeptide, petrocidin A (1), along with three known compounds—2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3), and maltol (4)—were isolated from the solid culture of Streptomyces sp. SBT348. The strain Streptomyces sp. SBT348 had been prioritized in a strain collection of 64 sponge-associated actinomycetes based on its distinct metabolomic profile using liquid chromatography/high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The absolute configuration of all α-amino acids was determined by HPLC analysis after derivatization with Marfey’s reagent and comparison with commercially available reference amino acids. Structure elucidation was pursued in the presented study by mass spectrometry and NMR spectral data. Petrocidin A (1) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3) exhibited significant cytotoxicity towards the human promyelocytic HL-60 and the human colon adenocarcinoma HT-29 cell lines. These results demonstrated the potential of sponge-associated actinomycetes for the discovery of novel and pharmacologically active natural products.
The present study examined whether opening of an ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channel can induce hydroxyl free radical (•OH) generation in the rat myocardium. Sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μl/min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of •OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Induction of cromakalim (100 μM), a KATP channel opener, through the microdialysis probe significantly increased the level of 2,3-DHBA. Another KATP channel opener, nicorandil, also increased the level of 2,3-DHBA. When iron(II) was administered to cromakalim-pretreated animals, a marked elevation of DHBA was observed, compared with iron(II) only-treated animals. A positive linear correlation between iron(II) and formation of •OH, trapped as DHBA in the dialysate, was shown (r2 = 0.988). When corresponding experiments were performed with nicorandil-treated animals, a positive linear correlation between iron(II) and DHBA in the dialysate was shown (r2 = 0.988). However, the presence of glibenclamide (1–50 μM) decreased the cromakalim-induced 2,3-DHBA formation in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 = 9.1 μM). 5-Hydroxydecanoate (5-HD; 100 μM), another KATP channel antagonist, also decreased cromakalim-induced •OH formation. The IC50 value for 5-HD against cromakalim-evoked increase in 2,3-DHBA was 107.2 μM. In the presence of glibenclamide (10 μM), the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, the normal elevation of 2,3-DHBA in the heart dialysate was not observed in animals pretreated with glibenclamide (10 μM). When corresponding experiments were performed with 5-HD (100 μM) pretreated animals, the same results were obtained. These results suggest that opening of cardiac KATP channels may cause •OH generation.
Honey has been implicated in promoting healing process of superficial wounds like burn injury and decubitus ulcer. It is attributed to high antioxidant and antibacterial activities through prevention of bacterial infection. Phytochemical contents, hydrogen peroxide, low pH and high osmolarity are the key factors that affect honey bioactivity. These properties are unique to different honey type depending mainly on their geographical origin, bee species, and floral source. Influence of these variations to honey production has drawn questions to the level of bioactivity between honey, especially from the different geographical location. To date, there are very limited data on Malaysian and Turkish honey bioactivities to answer such questions. Therefore, the present study aims to investigate the antioxidant and antibacterial activities of five Malaysian honey and five Turkish honey. The antioxidant activity of honey was evaluated using spectrophotometric measurements including 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2‘-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphuric acid) (ABTS) and Ferric Reducing Antioxidant Power (FRAP) assays. Total phenolic content (TPC) and Liquid Chromatography-Mass spectrophotometry (LC-MS) were employed to characterize the phenolic profile of honey samples. Antibacterial properties of honey were evaluated via Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC)/Minimum Bactericidal Concentration (MBC) assays and agar well diffusion assay against Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Bacillus cereus. 16S rDNA gene sequencing analysis was conducted for pathogenic bacterial screening. Kelulut honey possessed the highest antioxidant activity with the scavenging ability of 0.00421±0.03μeq AAE/mg and FRAP value of 13.37±0.49μMx100/mg. Gelam honey, however, detected highest in ABTS assay with 93.74% inhibition while 2.216±0.02μg GAE/mg in TPC. LC-MS detected six phenolic acids in honey tested which present in various combination of; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, gallic acid, p-salicylic ::: v ::: acid, syringic acid and vanillic acid. Gelam honey exerted highest antibacterial activity against S. aureus with 5% MIC and 6.35% MBC, E. coli with 12.5% MIC and 15% MBC and against P. aeruginosa with 10% MIC and 12.5% MBC. B cereus however only inhibited by gelam, tualang, carob blossom and spring honey at 15% while killed at 20% by those honey. Kelulut honey gave equal effects on all bacteria tested for both MIC and MBC assays (20%). In diffusion assay, the highest antibacterial activity was demonstrated by spring honey against B. cereus with 28.54 EPC of total activity while 27.72 EPC of non-peroxide activity. Two honey failed to inhibit bacterial growth neither for total activity nor non-peroxide activity, namely lavender honey against E. coli and P. aeruginosa and pine honey against E. coli. Significant differences were found between total and non-peroxide activities of acacia honey against B. cereus, lavender and wildflowers honey against S. aureus as well as wildflowers and carob blossom honey against E. coli and B. cereus. Sixty-one Gram-positive bacilli were isolated from tested honey with the dominance of Bacillus pumilus (40.90%). In conclusion, Gelam and kelulut honey from Malaysia and spring honey from Turkey possessed excellent antioxidant capacities and antibacterial properties against bacterial species, especially Gram-positive ones. It was likely due to variation in their physicochemical properties that influence by their floral source, place of origin as well as their bee species.
The synthesis and study of a number of new iron(III) complexes of the ligands 3-hydroxy-2(1H)-pyridinone (3,2-opoH), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-dhbH3) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-dhbH3) are described. These complexes have the formulae [Fe(3,2-opo)2Cl]·PrnOH, K[Fe(2,3-dhbH)2(H2O)2], [Fe(2,3-dhb)(H2O)2], K[Fe-(3,4-dhbH)2(H2O)2], [Fe(3,4-dhb)(H2O)2] and K6[Fe(3,4-dhb)3]·3H2O. The complexes were characterized by elemental analyses. X-ray powder patterns, t.g.a./d.t.g. techniques, magnetic susceptibilities and spectroscopic (u.v.-vis., i.r. and variable-temperature 57Fe-Mossbauer) studies. Monomeric octahedral structures are assigned for the 1∶2 2,3-dhbH2− complex and the 1:3 3,4-dhb3− compound. Dinuclear and/or oligonuclear structures are tentatively proposed for the remaining complexes in the solid state. In [FeL(H2O)2] (L3− = 2,3-dhb3− or 3,4-dhb3−), iron(III) appears to be 5-coordinate. Both oxygens of 3,2-opo− participate in coordination, while the dihydroxybenzoato ligands exhibit various coordination modes, depending mainly on the positions of the hydroxy groups, their anionic charge and the ligand∶metal molar ratio used.
The neuroprotective effect of hypoxic preconditioning on kainate (KA)-induced neurotoxicity, including apoptosis and necrosis, was investigated in rat hippocampus. Female Wistar-Kyoto rats were subjected to 380 mm Hg in an altitude chamber for 15 h/day for 28 days. Intrahippocampal infusion of KA was performed in chloral hydrate anesthetized rats, which acutely elevated 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels in normoxic rats. Seven days after the infusion, KA increased lipid peroxidation in the infused hippocampus and resulted in hippocampal CA3 neuronal loss. A 4-week hypoxic preconditioning attenuated KA-induced elevation in hydroxyl radical formation and lipid peroxidation as well as KA-induced neuronal loss. The effects of hypoxic preconditioning on KA-induced apoptosis and necrosis were investigated further. Two hours after KA infusion, cytosolic cytochrome c content was increased in the infused hippocampus. Twenty-four hours after KA infusion, pyknotic nuclei, cellular shrinkage, and cytoplasmic disintegration, but not TUNEL-positive staining, were observed in the CA3 region of hippocampus. Forty-eight hours after KA infusion, both DNA smear and DNA fragmentation were demonstrated in the infused hippocampus. Furthermore, TUNEL-positive cells, indicative of apoptosis, in the infused hippocampus were detected 72 h after KA infusion. Hypoxic pretreatment significantly reduced necrotic-like events in the KA-infused hippocampus. Moreover, hypoxic preconditioning attenuated apoptosis induced by KA infusion, including elevation in cytosolic cytochrome c content, TUNEL-positive cells, and DNA fragmentation. Our data suggest that hypoxic preconditioning may exert its neuroprotection of KA-induced oxidative injuries via attenuating both apoptosis and necrosis in rat hippocampus.
A new cyclic dipeptide, petrocidin A (1), along with three known compounds-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3), and maltol (4)-were isolated from the solid culture of Streptomyces sp. SBT348. The strain Streptomyces sp. SBT348 had been prioritized in a strain collection of 64 sponge-associated actinomycetes based on its distinct metabolomic profile using liquid chromatography/high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). The absolute configuration of all α-amino acids was determined by HPLC analysis after derivatization with Marfey's reagent and comparison with commercially available reference amino acids. Structure elucidation was pursued in the presented study by mass spectrometry and NMR spectral data. Petrocidin A (1) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3) exhibited significant cytotoxicity towards the human promyelocytic HL-60 and the human colon adenocarcinoma HT-29 cell lines. These results demonstrated the potential of sponge-associated actinomycetes for the discovery of novel and pharmacologically active natural products.
Marine sponges are sources for diverse and novel actinomycetes [1] [2] [3] [4] . A multitude of secondary metabolites [5] have been recovered from marine sponge-associated actinomycetes that display diverse biological activities, such as antimicrobial [6] [7] [8] [9] , antiparasitic [10, 11] , immunomodulatory [12] , antichlamydial [13] , antioxidant [14] , and anticancer [15, 16] activities. The conventional natural products isolation scheme has however frequently been challenged owing to the repeated isolation of known compounds, the failure to isolate trace compounds and sometimes the loss of activity during fractionation and compound purification [17] . The lack of detailed chemical information prior to isolation is another draw-back of conventional natural product discovery. By comparison, the metabolomics approach comes with the significant advantage that different active compounds can be determined in crude extracts without comprehensive fractionation or prior isolation of the individual compound while still offering structural information [18] [19] [20] [21] . Our previous study using individual compound while still offering structural information [18] [19] [20] [21] . Our previous study using metabolomics and dereplication tools revealed a chemically distinct strain Streptomyces sp. SBT348 by PCA analysis [22] . In the present study, we report on the isolation and structure elucidation of a new cyclic dipeptide, petrocidin A (1); three known compounds 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3), and maltol (4) from strain Streptomyces sp. SBT348; as well as the determination of their anti-proliferative properties against HL-60, HT29, and MCF-7 cancer cell lines.
Oxygen free radicals may play a pivotal role in the development of the shock-induced inflammatory response syndrome. Hydroxyl free radicals (.OH) react with salicylate (SA) to form 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) products. We utilized salicylate hydroxylation to investigate .OH formation during intestinal ischemia/reperfusion injury in male Sprague-Dawley rats. After administering salicylate, the superior mesenteric artery was occluded for 45 min and then allowed to reperfuse for 90 min after declamping. No significant changes in plasma 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA/SA ratios were observed in sham-operated or in animals given intestinal ischemia without reperfusion. A significant increase (p < .05) in arterial, venous, and portal venous 2,5-DHBA/SA ratios occurred 5 min after reperfusion. This increase was prevented by allopurinol as well as by dimethylthiourea (.OH scavenger) pretreatment. 2,3-DHBA was significantly increased (p < .05) in venous and portal venous blood after 30 min of reperfusion, but was not detectable in plasma of allopurinol- and dimethylthiourea-treated rats. These results indicate that hydroxyl free radical formation as reported by SA hydroxylation appears to be important in intestinal ischemia/reperfusion-related tissue injury.
The present study was examined the effect of tyramine-induced hydroxyl radical (•OH) generation. A flexibly mounted microdialysis technique was used to detect the generation of •OH in in vivo rat hearts. To measure the level of •OH, sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μL/min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of •OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). To confirm the generation of •OH by the Fenton-type reaction, iron(II) was infused through a microdialysis probe. A positive linear correlation between iron(II) and the formation of 2,3-DHBA (R2 = 0.983) was observed.
Publisher Summary Iron accumulation results from hyper absorption of dietary iron (primary hemosiderosis) or from transfusion therapy (secondary hemosiderosis).The accumulation of iron is because of the fact that humans lack the physiological means of excreting this metal. Thus, the development of drugs for the purpose of chelating iron is necessary if the sequelae of transfusion therapy are to be avoided. The rational design of such agents is now a challenge to the medicinal chemists. Recently, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has noted the need for more efficacious drugs and has initiated a program to screen and evaluate iron chelators. Two complementary biological screening procedures are being utilized in the search for new drugs, an in vitro technique using Chang liver cells and an in vivo assay employing hyper transfused rats. The compounds that have been studied to date are primarily those having the functional groups found in natural products. These include hydroxamic acids and derivatives of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. These moieties possess a high affinity for ferric ions rendering compounds that are highly selective for this metal both in vitro and in vivo . This chapter briefly describes the current status of the iron chelators that have been identified as having potential therapeutic usefulness.
Hydroxyl radical (OH*) can cause severe damage to cells and tissues. However, its analysis is very difficult for its high reactivity and very short half-life. In this paper, a simple and highly sensitive method, capillary zone electrophoresis with amperometric detection (CZE-AD) was introduced indirectly to determine OH* by determining its reaction products with salicylic acid (SAL), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA). The optimum conditions of CZE-AD for the determination of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA were explored. Under the optimum conditions, SAL, 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA could be perfectly separated within 15 min, and the linearity ranges of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA were between 1.0 x 10(-7) and 1.0 x 10(-4) mol l(-1). Their detection limits were as low as 2 x 10(-8) mol l(-1), which were much lower than that in CE-UV method. The method was also applied to study the free OH* scavenging activity of angelica polysaccharide. The experimental results showed that this CZE-AD method was very sensitive and practical in both the determination of free OH* and the evaluation of free OH* scavenging activities of antioxidants.
Investigation on the solid-state pharmaceutical chemistry has been known as an intriguing strategy to not only modify the physicochemical properties of drugs but also expand the solid form landscape. Vortioxetine (VOT) is an effective but poorly soluble antidepressant. To improve the solubility of vortioxetine and expand possible solid forms, in this paper, four novel solid forms of vortioxetine with dihydroxybenzoic acids (VOT-23BA, VOT-24BA-TOL, VOT-25BA, and VOT-26BA, 23BA = 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 24BA = 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 25BA = 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 26BA = 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and TOL = toluene) were synthesized first by a solvent evaporation method and then characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction (SCXRD), thermal, and XRD techniques. VOT-24BA-TOL, VOT-25BA, and VOT-26BA, showed similar [2+2] tetrameric R 4 4 (12) hydrogen bonds by acid-piperazine heterosynthon. In the VOT-23BA-H2O salt, the VOT cation and 23BA anion interacted through protonated piperazine-hydroxyl N-H···O hydrogen bonds, not protonated piperazine-deprotonated carboxylic acid N-H···O hydrogen bonds. Solubility studies were carried out in purified water and it was found that the VOT-23BA-H2O, VOT-25BA, and VOT-26BA salts exhibited an increase in water compared to pure VOT. The solubility of the stabilized salt formations followed the order of VOT-25BA > VOT-26BA > VOT-23BA-H2O in purified water.
The effect of discharging voltage and electric conductivity on the concentration of hydroxyl radical produced by glow discharge plasma is investigated in pH=3.2.The salicylic acid is used as the seizure reagent of hydroxyl radical and the high performance liquid chromatography is used to detect 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2,5-dHBA) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2,3-dHBA) which are produced by the reaction between salicylic acid and hydroxyl radical.It is proved indirectly that there are hydroxyl radicals in glow discharge plasma.The yield of hydroxyl radical produced by glow discharge plasma is reckoned semi-quantitatively in different experiment conditions.The result shows that the concentration of hydroxyl radical is 6.3179×10-5 mol/L when the discharging time lasts 60 min.
Thalassemic red blood cells (RBC) are characterized by alterations in globin chain stability that result in the release of redox-active iron within the RBC. This iron, via a self-propagating and self-amplifying reaction, destabilizes additional hemoglobin (hence, releasing more iron) and causes significant oxidant damage to other cellular components. To attenuate this iron-mediated damage pharmacologically, an intraerythrocytic iron chelation shuttle system is proposed. The iron shuttle systemconsists of low affinity, RBC permeable, iron-binding agents which enter the cell, bind iron, diffuse out, and hand-off the iron to a high affinity, RBC-impermeable, high molecular weight starch derivative of desferrioxamine (S-DFO). It is proposed that interruption of the iron-dependent damage via intraerythrocytic iron chelation results in improved RBC survival and may obviate the need for the initiation of transfusion therapy in some patients. Putative shuttle agents include 2,2'-bipyridyl, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), N,N-bis(2-hydroxybenzyl)ethylene-diamine-N,N-diacetic acid, and pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone. The proposed nonpermeable terminal chelator is a high molecular weight starch derivative of desferrioxamine that exhibits prolonged vascular survival (up to 7 days) and very significantly reduced toxicity relative to unmodified desferrioxamine. As is discussed, in vitro data demonstrate that a two component iron shuttle system effectively slows iron-driven oxidative damage improving the viability of model thalassemic RBC. Further in vivo studies may prove that the intraerythrocytic iron chelation shuttle system may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of thalassemia.
Investigation on the solid-state pharmaceutical chemistry has been known as an intriguing strategy to not only modify the physicochemical properties of drugs but also expand the solid form landscape. Vortioxetine (VOT) is an effective but poorly soluble antidepressant. To improve the solubility of vortioxetine and expand possible solid forms, in this paper, four novel solid forms of vortioxetine with dihydroxybenzoic acids (VOT-23BA, VOT-24BA-TOL, VOT-25BA, and VOT-26BA, 23BA = 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 24BA = 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 25BA = 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 26BA = 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and TOL = toluene) were synthesized first by a solvent evaporation method and then characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction (SCXRD), thermal, and XRD techniques. VOT-24BA-TOL, VOT-25BA, and VOT-26BA, showed similar [2+2] tetrameric R 4 4 (12) hydrogen bonds by acid-piperazine heterosynthon. In the VOT-23BA-H 2 O salt, the VOT cation and 23BA anion interacted through protonated piperazine-hydroxyl N-H···O hydrogen bonds, not protonated piperazine-deprotonated carboxylic acid N-H···O hydrogen bonds. Solubility studies were carried out in purified water and it was found that the VOT-23BA-H 2 O, VOT-25BA, and VOT-26BA salts exhibited an increase in water compared to pure VOT. The solubility of the stabilized salt formations followed the order of VOT-25BA > VOT-26BA > VOT-23BA-H 2 O in purified water. Crystals 2019, 9, 536 2 of 12 solubility of VOT. In this paper, we describe four new dihydroxybenzoic acid salts of VOT, as well as their crystal structures, physicochemical properties, and aqueous solubility. The chemical structures of VOT and dihydroxybenzoic acid are displayed in Scheme 1. Crystals 2019, x, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 13 VOT, as well as their crystal structures, physicochemical properties, and aqueous solubility. The chemical structures of VOT and dihydroxybenzoic acid are displayed in Scheme 1.
We have isolated a recombinant clone harboring the chromosomal aroC gene, encoding chorismate synthase, from Vibrio anguillarum 775 by complementation of the Escherichia coli aroC mutant AB2849 which was transfected with a cosmid gene bank of the plasmidless V. anguillarum H775-3. The nucleotide sequence was determined, and an open reading frame that corresponds to a protein of 372 amino acids was found. The calculated mass of 40,417 Da was correlated with the size of the V. anguillarum aroC product detected in vitro. The homology of the V. anguillarum aroC gene to the aroC genes of E. coli and Salmonella typhi is 68% at the nucleotide level and 78% at the protein level. The expression of the aroC transcript is not regulated by iron, as determined by Northern (RNA) blot hybridization analysis. After insertion of an antibiotic resistance gene cassette within the cloned aroC gene, an aroC mutant of V. anguillarum was generated by allelic exchange. This mutant is deficient in the production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). Our bioassay and complementation experiments with this mutant demonstrate that the chromosome-mediated 2,3-DHBA is a precursor of the pJM1 plasmid-mediated siderophore anguibactin.
: The effects of derivatives of dopamine-derived isoquinoline, (R)-1-methyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline [or (R)-salsolinol] on hydroxyl radical production were studied in vivo and in vitro. As reported previously, (R)-salsolinol is N-methylated in the brain into N-methyl-(R)-salsolinol, which is further oxidized into the 1,2-dimethyl-6,7-dihydroxyisoquinolinium ion. Using in vivo microdialysis, we measured hydroxyl radical levels in the rat striatum by HPLC after derivatization to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with salicylic acid. (R)-Salsolinol and the isoquinolinium ion (40 and 200 µM) and N-methyl-(R)-salsolinol (200 µM) reduced in vivo radical formation, with reduction of dopamine catabolism. (R)-Salsolinol and the isoquinolinium ion reduced in vitro hydroxyl radical production from dopamine autoxidation. On the other hand, 40 µMN-methyl-(R)-salsolinol increased the hydroxyl radical level in the striatum, and the radical production by its autoxidation was confirmed in vitro. N-Methyl-(R)-salsolinol affected neither in vivo dopamine catabolism nor in vitro production of hydroxyl radicals from dopamine. These results show that (R)-salsolinol and N-methyl-(R)-salsolinol may be neuroprotective and neurotoxic, respectively, and thus might be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
A complete understanding of the toxicological behavior of quantum dots (QDs) in vivo is of great importance and a prerequisite for their application in humans. In contrast with the numerous cytotoxicity studies investigating QDs, only a few in vivo studies of QDs have been reported, and the issue remains controversial. Our study aimed to understand QD-mediated toxicity across different time points and to explore the roles of free cadmium ions (Cd(2+)) and hydroxyl radicals (·OH) in tissue damage. Male ICR mice were administered a single intravenous dose (1.5 µmol/kg) of CdTe QDs, and liver and kidney function and morphology were subsequently examined at 1, 7, 14, and 28 days. Furthermore, ·OH production in the tissue was quantified by trapping · OH with salicylic acid (SA) as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and detecting it using a high-performance liquid chromatography fluorescence method. We used the induction of tissue metallothionein levels and 2,3-DHBA:SA ratios as markers for elevated Cd(2+) from the degradation of QDs and ·OH generation in the tissue, respectively. Our experimental results revealed that the QD-induced histopathological changes were time-dependent with elevated Cd(2+) and ·OH, and could recover after a period of time. The Cd(2+) and ·OH exhibited delayed effects in terms of histopathological abnormalities. Histological assessments performed at multiple time points might facilitate the evaluation of the biological safety of QDs.
This is an environmentally friendly method in the field of electroorganic reactions under controlled potential electrolysis, without toxic reagents at a carbon electrode in an undivided cell which involves the (EC) mechanism reaction and comprises two steps alternatively; (i) electrochemical oxidation and (ii) chemical reaction. In particular, the electrochemical oxidation of 4-tert-butylcatechol, 4-methylcatechol and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the presence of 2-phenyl-1,3-indandione has been studied in a water-acetonitrile (90 : 10) mixture. The research includes the use of a variety of experimental techniques, such as cyclic voltammetry, controlled-potential electrolysis, and spectroscopic identification of products (FT-IR, (1)H-NMR, and MS spectrometry).
Abstract Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations provide molecular level information about the interaction of organic molecules with the solid surfaces. There has been much development of this method to simulate the interaction of organic molecules with neutral surfaces but relatively less information is available regarding the interactions with charged surfaces. In this study we have developed MD model for the charged silica surface and have investigated the interactions of different benzoic acid derivatives with the charged silica surface in pure and saline water at acidic, neutral and basic pH. The investigated molecules were 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (23DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (34DHBA), 1,2,4-benzenetricarboxylic acid (BTCA) and phthalic acid (PHTHA). To simplify the analysis of results, three different simulation systems were considered. Clustering simulations showed how molecules aggregate in solution, pulling simulations provided quantitate information regarding the interactions of single molecule with the silica surface, whereas adsorption simulations focused on the adsorption of multiple molecules on the surface. In general, at pH 2–3, all investigated molecules were clustering and were attracted towards the surface. At pH 7, due to arising electrostatic repulsion, the interactions became weaker which prevented 23DHBA, 34DHBA and BTCA from clustering, however, they continued to adsorb on the silica surface. The adsorption of 23DHBA and 34DHBA decreased significantly at pH 9–10 due to electrostatic repulsion between the molecules and charged silica surface, while BTCA adsorbed slightly stronger due to interactions with ions close to the surface. PHTHA molecules behaved differently by clustering stronger and adsorbing weaker at higher pH. The results of MD simulations presented in this work by using pulling and adsorption approaches provide possibility to compare the results with experimental data.
The hydroxyl radical (.OH) is a highly reactive oxygen free radical that has been implicated as a cause of lung injury following exposure to silica and silicates. Despite evidence that silica generates .OH in vitro, there has been no previous demonstration of in vivo production of .OH after exposure to nonfibrous mineral oxide dusts. We tested the hypothesis that instillation of silica into rat lungs is associated with greater .OH production and acute lung inflammation in vivo relative to the instillation of a less toxic nonsilicate particle, titanium dioxide. The production of .OH in the lungs following dust instillation was measured using sodium salicylate as an .OH trap. Seven days after dust exposure, the rats were given intraperitoneal salicylate, the lungs isolated, and salicylate hydroxylation products (2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid), reflecting .OH, were measured. There was significantly more 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in silica-exposed lungs compared with lungs instilled with titanium dioxide. In addition, the instillation of silica into rat lungs in vivo was associated with a greater acute inflammatory response. We conclude that following in vivo exposure, silica stimulates greater .OH production relative to the less toxic particle, titanium dioxide. These differences in .OH generation correspond to disparities in acute lung inflammation.
The virulence plasmid pJM1 enables the fish pathogen Vibrio anguillarum, a gram-negative polarly flagellated comma-shaped rod bacterium, to cause a highly fatal hemorrhagic septicemic disease in salmonids and other fishes, leading to epizootics throughout the world. The pJM1 plasmid 65,009-nucleotide sequence, with an overall G+C content of 42.6%, revealed genes and open reading frames (ORFs) encoding iron transporters, nonribosomal peptide enzymes, and other proteins essential for the biosynthesis of the siderophore anguibactin. Of the 59 ORFs, approximately 32% were related to iron metabolic functions. The plasmid pJM1 confers on V. anguillarum the ability to take up ferric iron as a complex with anguibactin from a medium in which iron is chelated by transferrin, ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenyl-acetic acid), or other iron-chelating compounds. The fatDCBA-angRT operon as well as other downstream biosynthetic genes is bracketed by the homologous ISV-A1 and ISV-A2 insertion sequences. Other clusters on the plasmid also show an insertion element-flanked organization, including ORFs homologous to genes involved in the biosynthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Homologues of replication and partition genes are also identified on pJM1 adjacent to this region. ORFs with no known function represent approximately 30% of the pJM1 sequence. The insertion sequence elements in the composite transposon-like structures, corroborated by the G+C content of the pJM1 sequence, suggest a modular composition of plasmid pJM1, biased towards acquisition of modules containing genes related to iron metabolic functions. We also show that there is considerable microheterogeneity in pJM1-like plasmids from virulent strains of V. anguillarum isolated from different geographical sources.
The virulence plasmid pJM1 enables the fish pathogen Vibrio anguillarum, a gram-negative polarly flagellated comma-shaped rod bacterium, to cause a highly fatal hemorrhagic septicemic disease in salmonids and other fishes, leading to epizootics throughout the world. The pJM1 plasmid 65,009-nucleotide sequence, with an overall G؉C content of 42.6%, revealed genes and open reading frames (ORFs) encoding iron transporters, nonribosomal peptide enzymes, and other proteins essential for the biosynthesis of the siderophore anguibactin. Of the 59 ORFs, approximately 32% were related to iron metabolic functions. The plasmid pJM1 confers on V. anguillarum the ability to take up ferric iron as a complex with anguibactin from a medium in which iron is chelated by transferrin, ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenyl-acetic acid), or other iron-chelating compounds. The fatDCBA-angRT operon as well as other downstream biosynthetic genes is bracketed by the homologous ISV-A1 and ISV-A2 insertion sequences. Other clusters on the plasmid also show an insertion element-flanked organization, including ORFs homologous to genes involved in the biosynthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Homologues of replication and partition genes are also identified on pJM1 adjacent to this region. ORFs with no known function represent approximately 30% of the pJM1 sequence. The insertion sequence elements in the composite transposon-like structures, corroborated by the G؉C content of the pJM1 sequence, suggest a modular composition of plasmid pJM1, biased towards acquisition of modules containing genes related to iron metabolic functions. We also show that there is considerable microheterogeneity in pJM1-like plasmids from virulent strains of V. anguillarum isolated from different geographical sources.
To study the mechanism of the protective effect of the spin-trapping agent α-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) against MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) toxicity hydroxyl radicals and functional parameters of neuroprotection were determined. C57BL/6 mice received PBN (100 mg/kg IP) over a time period of 15 days and on day 8 MPTP (40 mg/kg SC). On day 15 striatal levels of dopamine, serotonin, and metabolites were analyzed. For radical determination mice received a single injection of salicylic acid (SA) (100 mg/kg IP) in the time period of 0.5 h before to 72 h after MPTP injection. In vivo maximum hydroxyl radical levels indicated by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid/SA ratios were obtained 4 h after MPTP injection, and were not affected by PBN treatment. However, the MPTP-induced mortality, reduction of locomotor activity, continuous loss of body weight, and striatal dopamine depletion were significantly less pronounced in PBN-treated animals. These results elucidate the time course of hydroxyl free radical formation in MPTP toxicity. PBN improved the functional parameters of neuroprotection against MPTP toxicity, but there is no evidence for hydroxyl radical scavenging properties to this effect.
Plant secondary metabolism is an active research area because of the unique and important roles the specialized metabolites have in the interaction of plants with their biotic and abiotic environment, the diversity and complexity of the compounds and their importance to human medicine. Thousands of natural accessions of Arabidopsis thaliana characterized with increasing genomic precision are available, providing new opportunities to explore the biochemical and genetic mechanisms affecting variation in secondary metabolism within this model species. In this study, we focused on four aromatic metabolites that were differentially accumulated among 96 Arabidopsis natural accessions as revealed by leaf metabolic profiling. Using UV, mass spectrometry, and NMR data, we identified these four compounds as different dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) glycosides, namely 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (gentisic acid) 5-O-β-D-glucoside, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 3-O-β-D-glucoside, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid 5-O-β-D-xyloside, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 3-O-β-D-xyloside. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping using recombinant inbred lines generated from C24 and Col-0 revealed a major-effect QTL controlling the relative proportion of xylosides vs. glucosides. Association mapping identified markers linked to a gene encoding a UDP glycosyltransferase gene. Analysis of Transfer DNA (T-DNA) knockout lines verified that this gene is required for DHBA xylosylation in planta and recombinant protein was able to xylosylate DHBA in vitro. This study demonstrates that exploiting natural variation of secondary metabolism is a powerful approach for gene function discovery.
The present study examined whether ischemia-reperfusion-induced hydroxyl radical (·OH) generation was attenuated by myo-inositol hexaphosphoric acid (phytic acid). A flexibly mounted microdialysis technique was used to detect the generation of ·OH in in vivo rat hearts. To measure the level of ·OH, sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 mM or 0.5 nmol/μl/min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of ·OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). To confirm the generation of ·OH by Fenton-type reaction, iron(II) was infused through a microdialysis probe. A positive linear correlation between iron(II) and the formation of 2,3-DHBA (R2=0.983) was observed. However, the level of 2,3-DHBA in norepinephrine (100 μM) plus phytic acid (100 μM) treated group were significantly lower than those observed in norepinephrine-only-treated group (n=6, *p<0.05). To examine the effect of phytic acid on ischemia-reperfusion-induced ·OH generation, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, the normal elevation of 2,3-DHBA in the heart dialysate was not observed in animals pretreated with phytic acid. These results suggest that phytic acid is associated with antioxidant effect due to the suppression of iron-induced ·OH generation.
Use of a disinfectant to inactivate infectious prions on surfaces, instruments and in liquids, wherein the disinfectant is a synergistically effective mixture of one or more hydroxybenzoic acids (A) and one or more phenols (B), in combination with alkyl sulfonates, alkyl sulfates and / or alkyl aryl sulfonic acid and / or alkyl aryl sulphonates and / or alkylaryl ether with 1-3 EO-groups and / or alkyl ether sulfates having 1-3 EO-groups, their sodium, potassium and ammonium salts, with primary or branched chains of the length C wherein the hydroxy benzoic acids are selected from 2-hydroxybenzoic, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3 5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxy benzoic acid, or mixtures thereof, wherein the phenols are selected from phenol, 2-iso-propyl-5-methylphenol, 2 -Methylphenol, 3-methyl phenol, 4-methylphenol, hexylresorcinol, 2-phenylphenol, 3-methyl-4-chlorophenol, 3,5-dimethyl-4-chlorophenol, 2-benzyl-4-chlorophenol, mono-, di- and trihalogenated phenols or mixtures thereof, and wherein the weight ratio of the hydroxybenzoic acids (A) to the phenols (B) is between 10:90 and 90:10.
Reversed-phase HPLC separation of enterobactin and its 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine derivatives was used for a comparative analysis of mutants of Escherichia coli, defective in the regulation of enterobactin biosynthesis (fur), enterobactin transport (fepA) and enterobactin esterase (fes). A complete separation of all 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine compounds was achieved: the monomer (DHBS), the linear dimer (DHBS)2 and trimer (DHBS)3, the cyclic trimer, enterobactin, as well as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The production of all these compounds was followed after ethylacetate extraction from acidified culture fluids. Enterobactin was found to be the predominant product in all mutant strains. The mutant strains behaved differently with regard to the breakdown products. All degradation products, such as DHBS, (DHBS)2 and (DHBS)3, were detected in the overproducing fur mutant where both transport and esterase are still functioning, while only the monomer, DHBS, was detected in the fepA mutant and no degradation was found in the esterase-deficient fes mutant. From the pattern of breakdown products it may be inferred that the esterase acts in two different ways, depending on whether transport is functioning or not. Thus, esterolytic cleavage of ferric enterobactin after entering the cells results in a mixture of all three hydrolysis products, i.e. DHBS, (DHBS)2 and (DHBS)3, while cleavage of iron-free enterobactin subsequent to its biosynthesis yields only the monomer. Thus, the results of quantitative HPLC analysis of enterobactin and its breakdown products show that different enterobactin esterase products arise, depending on whether iron is bound to enterobactin or not.
Chronic idiopathic oro-facial pain has become a common complaint, resulting increasingly in referral to the pain clinics world-wide, about 90% of the psychologically stress-related patients of the psychiatric clinic of Eastman Dental Hospital, London have been found to have associated idiopathic oro-facial pain. Psychological stress may produce a situation where oxidative stress might enhance the production of free radicals, especially OH radicals, in human biological fluids. Furthermore, it has been suggested that. OH radicals are responsible for the production of many systemic and local tissue injury diseases which may initially manifest as pain syndrome. It has been suggested that the oxygen free radical production of sailcloth, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) is a biological marker for the detection and quantification of OH radicals. Analyses of plasma samples collected from patients with chronic idiopathic orofacial pain and an equal number of age and sex matched control subjects revealed that the patient group had significantly increased evidence for circulating levels of 2,3-DHB after aspirin ingestion than control subjects. There was no significant difference in 2,5-DHB levels between the two groups. The urine samples from the same individuals showed evidence of measurable amounts of 2,3 and 2,5-DHB in both pre- and post-aspirin samples. These results suggest that OFRs may be involved in the aetiology of pain in patients that present with facial pain.
From cultures of Corynebacterium glutamicum ATCC 14067 (Brevibacterium sp. DSM 20411) a catecholate sid­ erophore could be isolated. It comprises three identical units consisting of L-Thr, Gly and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid which form a tri-lactonic macrocycle -the second example of this structural type.
The electrochemical behavior of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and the electron-transfer characteristics between Cu(II) and 2,3-DHBA were studied in aqueous solutions using cyclic voltammetry (CV). The overall electrochemical oxidation process of 2,3-DHBA by Cu(II) may be classified as a chemical reaction involving one-electron oxidation of 2,3-DHBA to its semiquinone radical in solution, followed by an electron-transfer reaction involving the oxidation of the semiquinone radical to a quinone at the electrode surface. In the presence of H2O2, oxidation of 2,3-DHBA by Cu(II) is enhanced due to the regeneration of Cu(II) by H2O2 oxidizing Cu(I). The redox cycling between Cu(I)/Cu(II) and H2O2 also produces hydroxyl radicals (OH). Even though the presence of OH may not be detected at the surface of a glassy carbon electrode, production of electroactive dissolved oxygen (O2) suggests the presence of OH. The production of O2 is dependent on Cu(II):H2O2 concentration ratio. At the electrode surface and when the initial Cu(II):H2O2 is less than 1, O2 is produced, suggesting that H2O2 may act as a scavenger for OH; at initial Cu(II):H2O2 > 1, the production of O2 is not favored, and OH will be involved in the oxidation of Cu(I) and the organic ligand. The reaction mechanisms proposed in this study indicate that OH production by chelator-mediated Fenton reactions is favorable under conditions found in the wood cell wall.
Abstract In this study, four technical grade insecticides, fipronil, pyriproxyfen, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam were applied at the recommended and the higher doses to investigate their effects on plant growth-promoting activities of phosphate-solubilizing Klebsiella sp. strain PS19, isolated from mustard rhizosphere. All tested insecticides displayed a concentration-dependent inhibition in plant growth promoting traits, like, inorganic phosphate solubilization, biosynthesis of phytohormones and siderophores, of rhizobacterial strain PS19. For example, the phosphate-solubilizing activity of Klebsiella sp. PS 19 was reduced maximally by 95%, at 3900 μg l−1 pyriproxyfen over control. At the recommended rate, the magnitude of toxicity of insecticides to plant growth promoting traits was less severe compared to the higher doses. The sequence of insecticide-toxicity expressed as percent decrease, determined at highest dose rate of each insecticide, over control was: pyriproxyfen (95) = imidacloprid (95) > thiamethoxam (94) > fipronil (85), for phosphate-solubilizing activity while for salicylic acid (SA) it was: thiamethoxam > pyriproxyfen = imidacloprid > fipronil. The impact of the highest dose rate of insecticides on 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) was almost equal to those observed for SA. Thiamethoxam decreased the indole acetic acid (IAA) synthesis maximally by 86% whereas fipronil had least toxicity and reduced it by 67% relative to the control. Among the experimental insecticides, pyriproxyfen at 3900 μg l−1 in general, had the greatest toxic effects for plant growth promoting activities of the test strain. The study inferred that insecticides affect the plant beneficial activities of rhizobacteria adversely. These findings are likely to add a new insight into the pest management practices.
Abstract Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species have been implicated as mediators of mucosal injury in inflammatory bowel disease. This study investigated hydroxyl radical (•OH) generation in the inflamed colon of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis by measuring the •OH-specific product of salicylate hydroxylation, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). Colitis was induced in 6–7 week old CBA/H male mice by supplementing the drinking water with 5% DSS for 7 days. On the last day of dextran exposure, mice were injected with salicylate (SAL) (100 mg/kg i.p.) 60 min before sacrifice, and mucosal homogenates were assayed for SAL and 2,3-DHB by HPLC with fluorescence and electrochemical detection. Mucosal 2,3-DHB levels in mice exposed to 5% DSS were increased by 83% (p
We examined the antioxidant effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor on 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) formation in extracellular fluid of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol microl(-1) min(-1) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH, as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. MPP+ clearly produced an increase in *OH formation in a concentration-dependent manner. When imidaprilat was infused in MPP+ -pre-treated animals, the formation of dopamine and 2,3-DHBA significantly decreased, as compared with that in the MPP+ -only-treated group. We compared the ability of two non-SH-containing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (imidaprilat and enalaprilat) with an SH-containing angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (captopril) to scavenge *OH. All three angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors were able to scavenge *OH generated by the action of MPP+. However, the changes produced by captopril and enalaprilat were not significant. When dopamine was administered to the MPP+ -pre-treatment group, a marked elevation was observed, showing a positive linear correlation between dopamine and *OH formation (2,3-DHBA) in the dialysate. Moreover, when iron (II) was administered to the MPP+ -pre-treatment group, the same results were obtained: a positive linear correlation (R2 = 0.989) between the release of dopamine and 2,3-DHBA (R2 = 0.989) in the dialysate. When corresponding experiments were performed with imidaprilat-pre-treated animals, the level of 2,3-DHBA decreased. These results suggested that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may protect against MPP+ -induced *OH formation in the rat striatum.
Abstract Production of hydroxyl radicals was examined in the diabetic rats induced by streptozotocin to prove its involvement to the pathogenesis of diabetes. Hydroxyl radicals generated in plasma, heart muscle, liver and brain of the hyperglycemic rats were quantitatively assayed by trapping hydroxyl radicals with salicylic acid as 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The concentrations of 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid were significantly increased in all the tissues of the diabetic rats. In the brain and heart muscle of the diabetic rats, the increase of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was more manifest than that of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, while in liver 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid increased markedly. All the values of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid detected in the tissues of the diabetic rats were quite higher than those in control. Hydroxyl radical production and blood glucose concentration were depended almost linearly on the amount of streptozotocin injected to rats up to 60 mg/kg body weight. It was suggested that 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was produced from hydroxyl radicals themselves, while 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was produced by hydroxylation of salicylic acid not only with hydroxyl radicals, but also by enzymatic reaction of microsomal cytochrome-P450. Hydroxyl radical formation may account for some pathological process especially in the heart muscle and brain.
ABSTRACT Plant secondary metabolism is an active research area because of the unique and important roles the specialized metabolites have in the interaction of plants with their biotic and abiotic environment, the diversity and complexity of the compounds and their importance to human medicine. Thousands of natural accessions of Arabidopsis thaliana characterized with increasing genomic precision are available, providing new opportunities to explore the biochemical and genetic mechanisms affecting variation in secondary metabolism within this model species. In this study, we focused on four aromatic metabolites that were differentially accumulated among 96 Arabidopsis natural accessions as revealed by leaf metabolic profiling. Using UV, mass spectrometry, and NMR data, we identified these four compounds as different dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) glycosides, namely 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (gentisic acid) 5-O-b-D-glucoside, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 3-O-b-D-glucoside, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid 5-O-b-D-xyloside, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 3-O-b-D-xyloside. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping using recombinant inbred lines generated from C24 and Col-0 revealed a major-effect QTL controlling the relative proportion of xylosides vs. glucosides. Association mapping identified markers linked to a gene encoding a UDP glycosyltransferase gene. Analysis of Transfer DNA (T-DNA) knockout lines verified that this gene is required for DHBA xylosylation in planta and recombinant protein was able to xylosylate DHBA in vitro. This study demonstrates that exploiting natural variation of secondary metabolism is a powerful approach for gene function discovery. P LANTS produce .200,000 diverse low-molecular weight compounds, known as secondary or specialized metabolites (Dixon and Strack 2003; Yonekura-Sakakibara and Saito 2009). These metabolites are not essential to shortterm survival but play important roles in many aspects of plant life, including growth regulation, defense against herbivores, UV protection, and other adaptations to the environment (Hartmann 2007). Apart from their roles in plant adaptation, plant specialized metabolites are rich sources for industrial and medicinal materials such as dyes, flavors, and pharmaceuticals (Balandrin et al. 1985) .
Bordetella bronchiseptica is a pathogen that can acquire iron using its native alcaligin siderophore system, but can also use the catechol xenosiderophore enterobactin via the BfeA outer membrane receptor. Transcription of bfeA is positively controlled by a regulator that requires induction by enterobactin. Catecholamine hormones also induce bfeA transcription and B. bronchiseptica can use the catecholamine noradrenaline for growth on transferrin. In this study, B. bronchiseptica was shown to use catecholamines to obtain iron from both transferrin and lactoferrin in the absence of siderophore. In the presence of siderophore, noradrenaline augmented transferrin utilization by B. bronchiseptica, as well as siderophore function in vitro. Genetic analysis identified BfrA, BfrD and BfrE as TonB-dependent outer membrane catecholamine receptors. The BfeA enterobactin receptor was found to not be involved directly in catecholamine utilization; however, the BfrA, BfrD and BfrE catecholamine receptors could serve as receptors for enterobactin and its degradation product 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Thus, there is a functional link between enterobactin-dependent and catecholamine-dependent transferrin utilization. This investigation characterizes a new B. bronchiseptica mechanism for iron uptake from transferrin that uses host stress hormones that not only deliver iron directly to catecholamine receptors, but also potentiate siderophore activity by acting as iron shuttles.
AbstractChemical speciation of Co(II), Ni(II), Cu(II) and Zn(II) complexes of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in 0.0-60.0% v/v 1, 2-propanediol-water mixtures maintaining an ionic strength of 0.16 mol dm-3 at 303±0.1 K has been studied pH metrically. The predominant complexes formed are ML, ML2 and ML2H2 for Co(II), Ni(II) and Zn(II) and ML, ML2, ML2H and ML2H2 for Cu(II). Models containing different numbers of species were refined by using the computer program MINIQUAD75. Selection of the best fit chemical models was based on statistical parameters and residual analysis. The trend in variation of complex stability constants with dielectric constant of the medium is explained on the basis of electrostatic and non-electrostatic forces. Distributions of species, formation equilibria and effect of influential parameters on the stability constants have been presented. The possible structures of the various species are elucidated on the basis of the analysis of the pH-metric data.
It was recently reported that neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) generates oxygen-derived free radicals in vitro at low concentrations of L-arginine. Using the microdialysis technique, we monitored both hydroxyl radical (.OH) and nitric oxide (.NO) formation in rat striatum perfused with glutamate (500 mM). .OH and .NO were quantitated in microdialysates by measuring the amounts of the non-enzymatic hydroxylation product of salicylate (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and the metabolites of .NO (nitrite + nitrate), respectively. .OH levels were dramatically increased during glutamate perfusion, while .NO generation was virtually abolished. .OH production was inhibited by the specific NOS blocker, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. This effect was not reversed but potentiated by L-arginine. Thus, it is likely that NOS generates oxygen-derived free radicals instead of .NO in brain subjected to highly excitotoxic conditions.
The investigation of chelating agents with potential therapeutic value in patients with transfusional iron overload has been facilitated by the use of Chang cell cultures. These cells have been incubated with [59Fe]transferrin for 22 hr, following which most of the intracellular radioiron is found in the cytosol, distributed between a ferritin and a nonferritin form. Iron release from the cells depends on transferrin saturation in the medium, but when transferrin is 100% saturated, which normally does not allow iron release, desferrioxamine, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, rhodotorulic acid, cholythydroxamic acid, and tropolone all promote the mobilization of ferritin iron and its release from cells. They are effective to an approximately equal degree. The incubation of [59Fe]transferrin with tropolone in vitro at a molar ratio of 1:500 results in the transfer of most of the labeled iron to the chelator, reflecting the exceptionally high binding constant of this compound. How far these phenomena relate to therapeutic potentially remains to be seen.
Abstract The present study was examined the antioxidant effect of tamoxifen, a synthetic non-steroidal antiestrogen, on cromakalim or nicorandil (ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels opener)-enhanced hydroxyl radical ( OH) generation induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in extracellular fluid of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 mM or 0.5 nmol/µl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Cromakalim (100 µM) or nicorandil (1 mM) enhanced the formation of OH trapped as DHBA induced by MPP+ (5 mM). Concomitantly, these drugs enhanced dopamine (DA) efflux induced by MPP+. Tamoxifen (30 µM) significantly decreased the level of DA enhanced by cromakalim or nicorandil. Tamoxifen suppressed DHBA formation induced by MPP+ and cromakalim or nicorandil. When iron(II) was administered to cromakalim treated animals, a marked elevation of DHBA was observed, compared with the tamoxifen-treated rats These results indicated that the effects of tamoxifen on opening of KATP channels enhances OH generation in the extracellular space of striatum during of DA release by MPP+. These results indicated that estrogen protects against neuronal degeneration by as an anti-oxidant.
Twenty of the twenty-two MudII1734 insertions impairing the chrysobactin iron-assimilation system of Erwinia chrysanthemi 3937 were localized to a 50 kbp genomic insert contained in the R-prime plasmid, R'4 (Enard et al., 1988). Using the conjugative plasmid pULB110 (RP4::mini-Mu) and the generalized transducing phage phi EC2, we located this iron-transport region and the two unlinked mutations on the chromosome linkage map. Chrysobactin is a catechol-type siderophore and, as we have previously observed with the entA locus of Escherichia coli, the E. chrysanthemi-derived R'4 was found to complement E. coli entB and entE mutations. A 2.9 kb EcoRi and a 4.8 kb BamHI fragment in the R'4 sharing homology with the E. coli entCEBAP15 operon DNA were subcloned. These fragments were used as DNA/DNA hybridization probes to screen a wild-type gene library, yielding a recombinant cosmid (pEC7) able to complement mutations disrupting the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid biosynthetic pathway in both Erwinia and Escherichia spp. as well as the E. coli entE mutation. Physical mapping of the genomic MudII1734 insertions corresponding to these mutations led to the identification of a cluster of genes confined to a DNA sequence of about 10 kb required for both biosynthetic and receptor functions.
A simple and sensitive method has been developed for the simultaneous determination of polar nonsteroidal pharmaceuticals and metabolites, including acetaminophen, p-aminophenol and several aspirin metabolites (salicylic acid, gentisic acid, salicyluric acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid), by capillary liquid chromatography with amperometric detection. Using a capillary monolithic column with mixed mode stationary phases and a mobile phase composed of acetonitrile and Tris buffer, rapid separation of six polar analytes was achieved within 8 min, and a hydrophilic interaction and strong anion exchange separation mechanism were exhibited. Method detection limits of six analytes ranged from 10 to 50 ng/mL. In terms of precision, the intra- and interday relative standard deviation values in all analytes never exceeded 3.1% for migration time and 8.9% for peak areas, respectively. This method provided a simple, rapid and cost-effective approach for the analysis of polar pharmaceuticals. The applicability of the method in pharmacokinetics was verified by spiking human serum samples with the compounds and analyzing the recoveries.
Iron is a required micronutrient for nearly all organisms as it is involved in a wide variety of essential metabolic processes. Although iron is abundant in the environment, it is not readily available inside host cells to prevent oxidative damage to itself or replication of pathogens. Pathogens, in particular, require efficient iron acquisition mechanisms to enable successful competition for iron in the highly iron-restricted environment of mammalian cells. When the intracellular iron concentration drops below a critical threshold, bacteria obtain iron by the direct uptake of heme or from iron-binding proteins by secreting small high affinity iron chelating compounds termed siderophores. A Brucella heme uptake mechanism and two Brucella siderophores (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and brucebactin) have been identified [1, 2] .
Abstract The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of antioxidants (e.g. α-lipoic acid and N -acetyl- l -cysteine) as well as N -methyl- d -aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (e.g. MK-801 and LY235959) on the changes of both core temperature and hypothalamic levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) induced by systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in rabbits. The measurements of 2,3-DHBA were used as an index of the intrahypothalamic levels of hydroxyl radicals. Intravenous administration of LPS (2–10 μg/kg) elicited a biphasic febrile response, with the core temperature maxima at 80 and 200 min post-injection. Each core temperature rise was accompanied by a distinct wave of cellular concentrations of 2,3-DHBA in the hypothalamus. The rise in both the core temperature and hypothalamic 2,3-DHBA could be induced by direct injection of glutamate (100–400 μg in 10 μl/rabbit) into the cerebroventricular fluid system. Either the early or the late phase of fever rise and increased hypothalamic levels of 2,3-DHBA following systemic injection of LPS were significantly antagonized by pretreatment with injection of α-lipoic acid (5–60 mg/kg, i.v.), N -acetyl- l -cysteine (2–20 mg/kg, i.v.), MK-801 (0.1–1 mg/kg, i.m.), or LY235959 (0.1–1 mg/kg, i.v.) 1 h before LPS injection. The increased levels of prostaglandin E 2 in the hypothalamus induced by LPS could be suppressed by α-lipoic acid or N -acetyl- l -cysteine pretreatment. These findings suggest that an NMDA receptor-dependent hydroxyl radical pathway in the hypothalamus of rabbit brain may mediate both the early and late phases of the fever induced by LPS.
The use of 5-aminosalicylic acid in assessment of reactive oxygen species formation was investigated by in vitro Fenton and ozonation reactions, and by in vivo ozone-exposure experiments. Enzymatic hydroxylation was evaluated by a microsomal assay. Fischer 344 male rats (250 g) injected with 5-aminosalicylic acid (100 mg·kg-1 i.p.; 30 min) were exposed to ozone (0, 1, 2 ppm; nose only, 2 h); bronchoalveolar lavage, lung homogenates, and plasma were recovered. Oxidation products of 5-aminosalicylic acid were as follows: salicylic acid, by deamination; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, from radical or enzymatic hydroxylation; 5-amino-2-hydroxy-N,N'-bis(3-carboxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-1,4-benzoquinonediimine, a condensation product of oxidized 5-aminosalicylic acid; and 5-amino-2,3,4,6-tetrahydroxybenzoic acid, attributed to hydroxyl radical attack without deamination, identified by HPLC electrochemical (HPLC-EC) detector system analysis and by GC-MS analysis of trimethylsilyl derivatives. ...
In investigations of iron siderophores produced by different Salmonella typhimurium strains we found a strain deficient in enterobactin production. Using microbiological and chemical methods, we detected the production and excretion of 2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid, a metabolite of the enterobactin biosynthesis pathway. The strain was able to produce aerobactin. We suggest that the iron uptake of pathogenic strains can be mediated by aerobactin alone. For a correct enterobactin bioassay it is necessary to use a mutant unable to grow on 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Microorganisms produce iron-chelating compounds to sequester the iron essential for growth from the environment. Many of these compounds are biosynthesized by nonribosomal peptide synthetases, some in cooperation with polyketide synthases. Myxochelins are produced by the myxobacterium Stigmatella aurantiaca Sg a15, and the corresponding gene cluster was cloned recently. We have undertaken to express heterologously the myxochelin biosynthetic machinery in Escherichia coli. To activate the involved proteins posttranslationally, they were coexpressed with the phosphopantetheinyltransferase MtaA from the myxothiazol biosynthetic gene cluster. Phosphopantetheinylation of the carrier proteins could be verified by protein mass analysis. Six active domains in proteins MxcE, MxcF, and MxcG are capable of assembling myxochelin from ATP, NAD(P)H, lysine, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in vitro. This fact demonstrates that the condensation domain of MxcG performs two condensation reactions, creating the aryl-capped alpha-amide and the aryl-capped gamma-amide of the molecule. A previously unknown type of reductive release is performed by the reduction domain of MxcG, which alternatively uses NADPH and NADH to set free the peptidyl-carrier protein-bound thioester as an aldehyde and further reduces it to the alcohol structure that can be found in myxochelin A. This type of reductive release seems to be a general mechanism in polyketide and nonribosomal peptide biosynthesis, because several systems with C-terminal similarity to the reductase domain of MxcG can be found in the databases. Alternatively, the aldehyde can be transaminated, giving rise to a terminal amine.
Background and objective: Isoflurane has been shown to mimic ischaemic preconditioning (IPC). The protective effect of IPC, or applying isoflurane or perfusion with the 'push-pull' complex zinc-desferrioxamine (Zn-DFO) in the canine heart, was investigated. Methods: Thirty minutes after salicylate administration (100 mg kg - 1 ) the heart was exposed. All dogs were subjected to a 10 min left anterior descending artery qcclusion followed by 2 h of reperfusion. In Group I (n = 9) isoflurane (2.5%) was administered 10 min prior to and during ischaemia. In Group II (n = 8), IPC was elicited by 5 min coronary artery occlusion, followed by 5 min of reperfusion, prior to the 10 min ischaemia. In Group III (n = 9) Zn-DFO (2.5 mg kg - 1 ) was given 10 min prior to ischaemia. The effects of these interventions were compared to control (n = 10). Coronary sinus blood concentrations of salicylate, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), lactate, pH and oxygen content were monitored. Results: In the control group, 2,3-DHBA increased by 32% above the pre-ischaemic value (P < 0.05). In contrast, in the IPC hearts, a significant decrease in the production of 2,3-DHBA was observed (40% lower than baseline, P < 0.01). In the isoflurane group only a 13% (and non-significant) decrease was noticed. In the Zn-DFO group a 33% decrease was found (P < 0.01). The increase in lactate concentrations in the IPC and Zn-DFO groups was significantly smaller than that of control and isoflurane groups. Conclusions: IPC protected the heart against the deleterious effects of reperfusion, possibly by amelioration of the level of oxygen-derived reactive species, and the complete inhibition of reactive hydroxyl radical production. Isoflurane did not prove to be as effective in reducing the free radical damage.
BACKGROUND ::: Barbiturates have been shown to be neuroprotective in several animal models, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In this study, the authors investigated the effect of barbiturates on free radical scavenging and attempted to correlate this with their neuroprotective effects in a model of hypoxic cell death in human NT2-N neurons. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Hydroxyl radicals were generated by ascorbic acid and iron and were measured by conversion of salicylate to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The effect of barbiturates on lipid peroxidation measured as malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxynon-2-enal was also investigated. Hypoxia studies were then performed on human NT2-N neurons. The cells were exposed to 10 h of hypoxia or combined oxygen and glucose deprivation for 3 or 5 h in the presence of thiopental (50-600 microM), methohexital (50-400 microM), phenobarbital (10-400 microM), or pentobarbital (10-400 microM), and cell death was evaluated after 24 h by lactate dehydrogenase release. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Pentobarbital, phenobarbital, methohexital, and thiopental dose-dependently inhibited formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and iron-stimulated lipid peroxidation. There were significant but moderate differences in antioxidant action between the barbiturates. While phenobarbital (10-400 microM) and pentobarbital (10-50 microM) increased lactate dehydrogenase release after combined oxygen and glucose deprivation, thiopental and methohexital protected the neurons at all tested concentrations. At a higher concentration (400 microM), pentobarbital also significantly protected the neurons. At both 50 and 400 microM, thiopental and methohexital protected the NT2-N neurons significantly better than phenobarbital and pentobarbital. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Barbiturates differ markedly in their neuroprotective effects against combined oxygen and glucose deprivation in human NT2-N neurons. The variation in neuroprotective effects could only partly be explained by differences in antioxidant action.
Abstract Oxidative stress plays a main role in the pathogenesis of the diabetic nephropathy. The present study investigated the effect of (−)-epicatechin (EC) and the colonic-derived flavonoid metabolites 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DHPAA), and 3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid on the redox status in high-glucose-exposed renal proximal tubular NRK-52E cells. EC and DHPAA (10 µM) alleviated the redox imbalance induced in high-glucose-challenged cells, as both compounds reverted to control levels reactive oxygen species (ROS) values. EC and DHPAA pre-treatment prevented the decrease of antioxidant defences and silent information regulator protein-1 (SIRT-1), and the increase of phosphorylated mitogen-activated-protein-kinases and NADPH-oxidase-4 (NOX-4) values under high-glucose-conditions. The presence of selective NOX-4 and SIRT-1 inhibitors in EC- and DHPAA-pre-treated cells showed the involvement of both proteins in EC- and DHPAA-mediated protection. These findings suggest that EC and DHPAA protected NRK-52E cells against a high-glucose-challenge by improving the cellular redox status through multiple signalling pathways, playing NOX-4/SIRT-1 a relevant role.
We studied the effect of an acute infusion of quinolinic acid (QUIN) on in vivo hydroxyl radical (.OH) formation in the striatum of awake rats. Using the microdialysis technique, the generation of OH was assessed through electrochemical detection of the salicylate hydroxylation product 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). The OH extracellular levels increased up to 30 times over basal levels after QUIN infusion (240 nmol/μl), returning to the baseline 2 h later. This response was attenuated, but not abolished, by pretreatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) 60 min before QUIN infusion. The mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NPA, 500 nmol/μl) had stronger effects than QUIN on OH generation, as well as on other markers of oxidative stress explored as potential consequences of OH increased levels. These results support the hypothesis that early .H generation contributes to the pattern of toxicity elicited by QUIN. The partial protection by MK-801 suggests that QUIN neurotoxicity is not completely explained through NMDA receptor overactivation, but it may also involve intrinsic QUIN oxidative properties.
In our previous paper, we found that aspirin suppressed in a somatic mutation and recombination test (SMART) of mitomycin C (MMC) in Drosophila melanogaster. In order to reveal the mechanism of bio-antimutagenicity and/or preventive effect of aspirin, we evaluated the suppressive ability of each aspirin metabolite, such as salicylic acid (SA), salicyluric acid (SUA), gentisic acid (GA), gentisuric acid (GUA) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), in SMART in D. melanogaster using post- and pre-treatments. As for the post-treatment, SA reduced the numbers of large single and twin spots. GA reduced the small single and large single spots, and GUA reduced the single spots, large single and twin spots. The inhibition of GUA is slightly stronger than that of any other metabolites; the inhibition percentage is 49 at the dose of 5 mg/bottle. On the other hand, as for the pre-treatment, aspirin, SUA, GA and DHBA reduced the numbers of small single spots. SUA, GE and DHBA reduced the number of large single spots. Aspirin and its metabolites did not reduce the number of twin spots. The results of the present study suggest that SA, GA and GUA repair or replicate DNA-damage by MMC and SUA, GA, GUA and DHBA prevent DNA-damage by MMC. It is suggested that secondary cancer is prevented by aspirin post-treatment without losing the medicinal effectiveness (anti-tumor activity). Therefore, we consider there are effective doses and/or administration timing of aspirin and MMC to prevent secondary cancer.
The archetypal siderophore, called enterobactin, is produced by Escherichia coli, Salmonella enterica, Shigella dysenteriae, and Klebsiella pneumoniae species (5). Synthesis of enterobactin (see Fig. S1 for synthesis pathway) depends on 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and serine, which are assembled together by the nonribosomal peptide synthesis machinery (9). To synthesize DHB, the primary metabolite shikimate is first converted into chorismate (by AroK, AroA, and AroC), which is then converted into DHB through the action of EntC, EntB, and EntA (10). The final assembly of DHB and serine into enterobactin depends on the action of EntD, EntB, EntE, and EntF (11). Once enterobactin has been synthesized, it is transported through the inner membrane by EntS (12) and the outer membrane by TolC (13). Outside the cell, enterobactin will bind to ferric Fe (Fe 3+ ) with an extremely high affinity (14). Then, Fe-loaded enterobactin complexes are imported into the cell through the outer membrane receptor FepA protein and the TonB energy transducer system found in the cell envelope (15, 16) .
Microorganisms produce iron-chelating compounds to sequester the iron essential for growth from the environment. Many of these compounds are biosynthesized by nonribosomal peptide synthetases, some in cooperation with polyketide synthases. Myxochelins are produced by the myxobacterium Stigmatella aurantiaca Sg a15, and the corresponding gene cluster was cloned recently. We have undertaken to express heterologously the myxochelin biosynthetic machinery in Escherichia coli. To activate the involved proteins posttranslationally, they were coexpressed with the phosphopantetheinyltransferase MtaA from the myxothiazol biosynthetic gene cluster. Phosphopantetheinylation of the carrier proteins could be verified by protein mass analysis. Six active domains in proteins MxcE, MxcF, and MxcG are capable of assembling myxochelin from ATP, NAD(P)H, lysine, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in vitro. This fact demonstrates that the condensation domain of MxcG performs two condensation reactions, creating the arylcapped ␣-amide and the aryl-capped ␥-amide of the molecule. A previously unknown type of reductive release is performed by the reduction domain of MxcG, which alternatively uses NADPH and NADH to set free the peptidyl-carrier protein-bound thioester as an aldehyde and further reduces it to the alcohol structure that can be found in myxochelin A. This type of reductive release seems to be a general mechanism in polyketide and nonribosomal peptide biosynthesis, because several systems with C-terminal similarity to the reductase domain of MxcG can be found in the databases. Alternatively, the aldehyde can be transaminated, giving rise to a terminal amine.
Abstract O -Pyrocatechuic acid (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) carboxylyase (E.C. 4.1.1.), enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of catechol by Aspergillus niger , has been extracted from the acetone powders of mycelial mats grown in the presence of l -tryptophan and purified 815-fold by precipitation of nucleic acids, fractionation with ammonium sulfate and acetone, negative adsorption on hydroxylapatite, and nitration through Sephadex G-100. The purified enzyme is a simple protein without any prosthetic group. It acts specifically on o -pyrocatechuic acid and produces stoichiometric quantities of catechol and carbon dioxide. The enzyme is most active around pH 5.2 and 45 °. The K m value is 0.3 mm. In contrast to other known aromatic carboxy-lyases, this enzyme does not show a requirement for any cofactor or metal ion. Sulfhydryl groups are involved in the reaction. Structural analogs like salicylic acid competitively inhibit the carboxy-lyase activity.
Use of a square-wave potential program for time-dependent amperometric detection of analyte zones in capillary electrophoresis (CE) is described. Electrochemical detection for CE requires that the separation field be isolated from that of the electrochemical detection. This is generally done by physically separating the CE separation field from that of the detection. By applying a time variant potential program to the detection electrode, the detector current has a time dependence that can be used to help isolate the electrochemical detection current from that of the separation. When using a 20 μm inner-diameter capillary, we find that a square-wave potential program decreases the RMS baseline current from 4.5×10−10 A, found with a constant potential amperometric detection, to 1.1×10−10 A when using a square-wave potential program. With a 75 μm inner-diameter capillary, the improvement is even more dramatic, from 2.3×10−9 A with amperometric detection to 2.06×10−10 A when using a 1 Hz square-wave potential program. When not using the time-dependent detection with the 75 μm capillary, the analyte zones were beneath the S/N for the system and not detected. With the square-wave potential program and time-dependent detection, however, the analyte zones for an electrokinetic injection of 200 μM solution of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were observed with the 75 μm inner-diameter capillary. The improvement in the ability to discriminate the analytical signal from the background found experimentally is consistent with modeling studies.
Acetazolamide (ACZ) has been combined via liquid-assisted grinding in water with a library of cocrystal formers derived from benzoic and nicotinic acid, which provided novel cocrystals with 2-hydroxybenzamide, 2-aminobenzamide, picolinamide, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The cocrystalline phases were identified first by XRPD analysis and then structurally characterized by IR spectroscopy and single-crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. These cocrystals and the previously reported cocrystalline phases obtained from 4-hydroxybenzoic acid and nicotinamide constitute a series of six cocrystals of varied stoichiometric ratios (3:1, 2:1, 1:1, and 1:2), which allowed for a profound analysis of the structural and chemical factors that govern their formation. The structural analysis has shown that the ACZ molecules participate in the dominant hydrogen-bonding patterns within the crystal structures: three cocrystal structures exhibit extended supramolecular aggregates of ACZ having channels, pores, or semispherical ...
The salicylate trap method, combined with microdialysis, has been used to validate whether reactive oxygen species, particularly hydroxyl radicals, ((*)OH), are generated in the hippocampus of male Wistar rats after acute intraperitoneal administration of either ethanol, 2 and 3 g/kg, or acetaldehyde, 200 mg, or during the initial stages of ethanol withdrawal after chronic ethanol intoxication. Salicylate (5 mM) was infused into the hippocampus via the microdialysis probe and the products of its metabolism by hydroxyl radical, particularly 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as well as 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA) assayed by HPLC (High Pressure Liquid Chromatography). Acetaldehyde, 200 mg/kg, and the higher acute dose of ethanol, 3 g/kg, induced transitory increases in 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA microdialysate content. At the cessation of four weeks of chronic ethanol intoxication, (by the vapour inhalation method), the mean blood alcohol level was 1.90 g/l. Significant increases of microdialysate 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA levels were assayed 3 h after alcohol withdrawal which were sustained for a further 5 and 1 h 40 min respectively. Oral administration of Acamprosate, 400 mg/kg/day, during the chronic ethanol intoxication procedure prevented the increased formation of 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA by comparison to rats chronically ethanol intoxicated alone.
The present study examined whether tyramine-induced hydroxyl radical (·OH) generation via noradrenaline release was attenuated by prazosin. A flexibly mounted microdialysis technique was used to detect the generation of ·OH in in vivo rat hearts. The microdialysis probe was implanted in the left ventricular myocardium of anaesthetized rats and Ringer's solution was used. To measure the level of ·OH, sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μl/min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of ·OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Tyramine (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mM) increased the level of 2,3-DHBA in a concentration-dependent manner. However, in the presence of prazosin (10 μM), the effect of tyramine was abolished. To confirm the generation of ·OH by a Fenton type reaction, iron (II) was infused through a microdialysis probe. A positive linear correlation between iron (II) and the formation of 2,3-DHBA (R2=0.982) was observed. To examine the effect of prazosin on ischemic/reperfused rat myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. When the heart was reperfused, a marked elevation of the level of 2,3-DHBA was observed. However, in the presence of prazosin (10 μM), the elevation of 2,3-DHBA was not observed in ischemic/reperfused rat heart. Prazosin was shown to have a ·OH scavenging effect. These results suggest that tyramine-induced noradrenaline causes ·OH generation, an effect which is inhibited by prazosin as Na+ channel blocker, but not through its α1-adrenoceptor antagonistic action of prazosin.
Hypoxia-ischemia with reperfusion is known to cause reactive oxygen species-related damage in mammalian systems, yet, the anoxia tolerant freshwater turtle is able to survive repeated bouts of anoxia/reoxygenation without apparent damage. Although the physiology of anoxia tolerance has been much studied, the adaptations that permit survival of reoxygenation stress have been largely ignored. In this study, we examine ROS production in the turtle striatum and in primary neuronal cultures, and examine the effects of adenosine (AD) on cell survival and ROS. Hydroxyl radical formation was measured by the conversion of salicylate to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) using microdialysis; reoxygenation after 1 or 4 h anoxia did not result in increased ROS production compared with basal normoxic levels, nor did H2O2 increase after anoxia/reoxygenation in neuronally enriched cell cultures. Blockade of AD receptors increased both ROS production and cell death in vitro, while AD agonists decreased cell death and ROS. As turtle neurons proved surprisingly susceptible to externally imposed ROS stress (H2O2), we propose that the suppression of ROS formation, coupled to high antioxidant levels, is necessary for reoxygenation survival. As an evolutionarily selected adaptation, the ability to suppress ROS formation could prove an interesting path to investigate new therapeutic targets in mammals.
Nonribosomal peptides (NRPs) are molecules produced by microorganisms and synthesized by huge multienzymatic complexes (38, 41), called nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs). These megaenzymes are organized into modules, one for each amino acid to be built into the peptide product. This is accomplished by division of each catalytic step into specialized semiautonomous domains. The basic set of domains (adenylation, thiolation, and condensation) within a module can be extended by substrate-modifying domains, including domains for substrate epimerization, ␤ hydroxylation, N methylation, and heterocyclic ring formation. The peptide release is catalyzed by a thioesterase domain which can also, in many cases, be involved in an intramolecular reaction leading to a cyclic or partially cyclic peptide or, in fewer cases, in the oligomerization of peptide units (iterative biosynthesis). NRPs show a broad spectrum of biological activities and pharmaceutical applications. They can harbor antimicrobial, immunomodulator, or antitumor activities. Cyclosporine (5), an immunosuppressant drug widely used in organ transplantation, daptomycin (60) (marketed in the United States under the trade name Cubicin), used in the treatment of certain infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria, aminoadipyl-cysteinylvaline (ACV)-tripeptide, which is the precursor of cephalosporin and penicillin (29), the most famous antibiotic, and also bleomycin (57), used in the treatment of several cancers, are some common examples of NRPs of high therapeutic importance. Two main structural traits distinguish these peptides from ribosomally synthesized peptides: first, their primary structure is more frequently cyclic (partially or totally) branched or polycyclic rather than linear and, second, the biodiversity of monomers incorporated in NRPs goes far beyond the 20 proteogenic amino acids residues. NRP monomers include modified versions of the proteogenic amino acids (e.g., methylated, hydroxylated, and D-forms) but also other monomers, such as, for example, 2-aminoisobutyric acid (Aib), hydroxyphenylglycine (Hpg), and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (diOH-Bz). However, essential characteristics of this diversity and its relationship with biological functions and producing organisms have been poorly understood until now.
Siderophores are small molecules that chelate ferric iron with extraordinarily high affinity (estimated K D ~ 10 -50 M) [1, 2] . Escherichia coli synthesizes and secretes the catecholate siderophore enterobactin for iron acquisition [3] [4] [5] . Enterobactin is a cyclic triester of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine (DHBS) that is produced in response to low intracellular iron concentrations. Biosynthesis of enterobactin requires the activities of seven cytoplasmic enzymes: EntA-F and EntH. The pathway of enterobactin biosynthesis can be divided into two major arms: (1) the DHB synthetic arm involves the sequential activities of EntC, EntB (Nterminal isochorismatase domain), and EntA to produce 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) from chorismate; (2) the NRPS arm involves the enzymes EntE, the C-terminal aryl carrier protein domain of holo-EntB (produced by phosphopantetheinylation of apo-EntB by EntD), and EntF.
Numerous protein-protein interactions within the NRPS arm have already been reported [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] . We recently reported a protein-protein interaction at the functional interface of the DHB synthesis and NRPS arms of the pathway [12] . We discovered that EntA, the last enzyme in the DHB synthesis arm of the pathway, forms a complex with EntE, the enzyme that adenylates DHB for its subsequent attachment to holo-EntB. Formation of the EntA-EntE complex causes an enhancement of EntE activity. EntA produces 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by the NADdependent oxidation of the precursor 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid produced by the isochorismatase domain of EntB [13] . The X-ray crystallographic structure of EntA has been reported [14] . EntA has a tetrameric quaternary structure organized as a dimer of dimers (PDB We have reported that the oligomeric state of EntA in vitro is concentration-dependent: at concentrations below 4 µM, EntA is predominantly dimeric, whereas at concentrations above 8 µM, the protein is predominantly tetrameric [12] . We found that EntE interacts with higher affinity to EntA in the tetrameric form than in the dimeric form.
Hydroxyl radical attack upon salicylate leads to the generation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and therefore can be used to assess hydroxyl radical formation both in vitro and in vivo. Evidence is presented for a highly sensitive LC/MS assay for the quantification of 2,3-DHBA. Calibration curves showed linearity within the concentration range tested (0.5-6.5 pmol/microl rat plasma) with a coefficient of determination (r2) greater than 0.99. A detection limit of less than 0.25 pmol for 2,3-DHBA has been achieved. The intra-assay and inter-assay variability were determined to be 4.1% and 12.5%, respectively. This method was evaluated for the determination of drug-induced in vivo generation of oxidative stress by means of 1,1,1-trichloroethane (TCE) a compound that is a pseudosubstrate for cytochrome P450 and is known to induce oxygen reductase activity of this enzyme(s). TCE treated rats had a 6.4-fold increase in the mean maximal plasma 2,3-DHBA concentration as compared to the saline treated rats (p = .009). The developed LC/MS assay requires minimal sample preparation and provides a rapid and sensitive method for quantification of 2,3-DHBA as a specific indicator of hydroxyl radical generation.
Azospirillum lipoferum strain D-2 produces the phenolate siderophores 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and salicylic acid under iron-starved conditions. Lysine and leucine were identified as the amino acid conjugates of the siderophores. The concentration of siderophores in the culture supernatant was maximal after 20 h growth. Iron-binding proteins were present in membranes of cultures grown under iron starvation. Iron uptake was enhanced in the presence of each of the siderophores.
The present study examined whether tamoxifen could suppress antidepressant drug phenelzine can increase an active dopaminergic neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation in the extracellular fluid of rat striatum, using in vivo microdialysis system. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Infusion of phenelzine (0.1 mM or 0.1 nmol/microl/min) into the striatum drastically increased dopamine (DA) efflux and the *OH formation, trapped as 2,3-DHBA by the possible increased production of MPP+. However, tamoxifen (100 microM) significantly suppressed phenelzine enhanced DA efflux and *OH formation by MPP+. These results in the pressent study is the first demonstration showing the protective effect of tamoxifen on *OH generation induced by phenelzine enhanced MPP+ by suppressing DA efflux.
The hypothesis of increased oxidative stress in alcohol-dependent patients postulates that altered free radical metabolism is involved in the various symptoms associated with this disease, including brain atrophy, peripheral polyneuropathy, alcoholic liver fibrinogenesis, and cancer. Using an in vivo assay for quantitation of hydroxyl radical (.OH) levels in peripheral blood, we detected increased values in patients suffering from alcohol dependence when compared with non-dependent control persons. The assay used in this study involves the injection of acetylsalicylic acid, which is metabolized in vivo by direct reaction with .OH to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). The time curve for the concentration of the reaction product (2,3-DHBA), determined by high-performance liquid chromatography, thus estimates the .OH radical level in the peripheral blood of individuals undergoing this test. For the first time, we used the intravenous application of acetylsalicylic acid to avoid artifacts arising from differences in gastrointestinal resorption, known to be disturbed in alcoholism. The areas under the 2,3-DHBA time curves differed significantly (p < 0.05) between patients and controls (0.54 ± 0.27 vs. 0.36 ± 0.19 μM.h). This study presents further evidence for alterations in radical metabolism in vivo in patients suffering from alcohol dependence. The assay can also be used in further studies dealing with antioxidative treatment (radical scavengers) to evaluate the effectiveness of such therapy.
An accurate and fast method for simultaneous determination of small organic acids and much larger humic acids was developed using high performance size exclusion chromatography. Two small organic acids, i.e. salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and one purified humic acid material were used in this study. Under the experimental conditions, the UV peaks of salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were well separated from the peaks of humic acid in the chromatogram. Concentrations of the two small organic acids could be accurately determined from their peak areas. The concentration of humic acid in the mixture could then be derived from mass balance calculations. The measured results agreed well with the nominal concentrations. The detection limits are 0.05 mg/L and 0.01 mg/L for salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, respectively. Applicability of the method to natural samples was tested using groundwater, glacier, and river water samples (both original and spiked with salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) with a total organic carbon concentration ranging from 2.1 to 179.5 mg C/L. The results obtained are promising, especially for groundwater samples and river water samples with a total organic carbon concentration below 9 mg C/L.
Anthranilic acid, a stimulant of germination in leachates of banana fruits, was converted in replacement culture experiments to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catechol and pyrogallol by mycelium of Colletotrichum musae. 3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid was not an intermediate in the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Both catechol and pyrogallol were produced when mycelium was incubated with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, but incubation of mycelium with catechol did not yield pyrogallol, suggesting that both of these compounds were derived from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. ::: ::: The same catabolites were detected when conidia were incubated with anthranilic acid. Concentrations of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol were maximal after 8 h incubation, when under the conditions of the experiment approximately one-third of the conidia had germinated, and declined thereafter. ::: ::: In bioassay experiments the concentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid required to stimulate 50% germination was significantly less (2·5 × 10−5m) than that of anthranilic acid (3·7 × 10−4m) or catechol (1·3 x 10−3m). Pyrogallol was not effective in the assay. ::: ::: The possibility that the mode of action of these and other compounds involves their chelating properties is discussed.
Iron-chelating low-molecular-weight compounds or catecholate siderophores have been suggested to be involved in wood biodegradation. To help in understanding the mechanism involved in the enzyme-like activity of catecholate siderophores, the oxidative properties of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DHPAA) chelated with iron were studied. The pH and catechol/Fe(III) ratios were optimized for o-dianisidine oxidation, obtaining a maximum at pH 7.0, in the absence of buffer, and a catechol/Fe(III) ratio of 1:2 to DHBA and 1:1 to DHPAA was found. Under these conditions, the catechols were able to reduce Fe(III) to Fe(II) acting like siderophore models. The Fe(III) complex of DHBA and of DHPAA degraded dioxane-lignin in 60% after 2 h and 85% after 24 h, respectively. DHBA/Fe(III) oxidized the bleaching effluent (E1) in 80% in 5 min under the studied conditions.
Anguibactin, an important virulent factor in Vibrio anguillarum serotype O1, is synthesized by a nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS) system encoded on a 65-kb virulence plasmid pJM1. angE, as one of the NRPS genes, is responsible for selecting and activating 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), an important precursor in anguibactin synthesis, into 2,3-DHBA-AMP by adenylylation in the presence of ATP. In this work, an entE homologue, angE, was identified on pEIB1 (a pJM1-like plasmid) from virulent V. anguillarum serotype O1 strain MVM425. A recombinant clone carrying the complete angE was able to complement an Escherichia coli entE mutant. The angE-encoded protein was overexpressed in E. coli and purified by a three-step procedure. Purified AngE was then used to establish an in vitro enzymatic reaction in which its enzymatic activity of 1-(5'-monophosphate adenyl) 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ligase (2,3-DHBA-AMP ligase) was proved using HPLC to detect AMP formation in the reaction mixture. Moreover, evidence at the level of both transcription and translation confirmed that angE was actively expressed in vivo in V. anguillarum MVM425, and interestingly, unlike many other iron-uptake-system-related genes, its expression is not induced by a low iron concentration in the surrounding environment.
Azospirillum iipoferurn strain D-2 produces the phenolate siderophores 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and salicylic acid under iron-starved conditions. Lysine and leucine were identified as the amino acid conjugates of the siderophores. The concentration of siderophores in the culture supernatant was maximal after 20 h growth. Iron-binding proteins were present in membranes of cultures grown under iron starvation. Iron uptake was enhanced in the presence of each of the siderophores.
• Neutrophil-derived oxygen-free radicals may play a role in organ dysfunction associated with generalized sepsis. A rat model was used to test the effects of two free radical scavengers, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), on mortality from intra-abdominal sepsis produced by cecal ligation and perforation. Being an iron-chelating agent, 2,3-DHB may have an additional bacteriostatic effect. Therapeutic regimens included no treatment; gentamicin sulfate (2 mg given intraperitoneally [IP] every eight hours); DMSO (2 g/24 hr given IP every eight hours in divided doses); 2,3-DHB (35 mg/kg given IP every eight hours); and combinations of gentamicin with each free radical scavenger. No statistically significant improvement in survival was obtained by therapeutic intervention with gentamicin alone, DMSO alone, 2,3-DHB alone, or gentamicin in combination with DMSO. When used in combination with gentamicin, 2,3-DHB yielded a statistically significant improvement in survival when compared with gentamicin alone or with no treatment. These results show that 2,3-DHB when used in combination with gentamicin has a beneficial effect on mortality following intra-abdominal sepsis in this model. (Arch Surg1985;120:937-940)
Abstract ::: The cytoplasmic fractions obtained from Bacillus subtilis strains W168 and WB2802 catalyzed reductive release of iron from the ferric chelate of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (ferri-DHB), the ferrisiderophore produced by B. subtilis. Ferrisiderophore reductase activity may insert iron into metabolism. This activity required a reductant (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate was preferred), was oxygen sensitive, and was stimulated by flavin mononucleotide plus certain divalent cations. The cytoplasmic fractions also reduced 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol; this reaction was stimulated by flavin mononucleotide plus a divalent cation. Ferri-DHB and 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol reductase activities were copurified by phosphocellulose and diethylaminoethyl-cellulose chromatography. Nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the purified material revealed that both ferri-DHB and 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol reductase activities were located in a protein band at Rf 0.75. The chromatographic procedures purified a reductase known to be associated with two aromatic biosynthetic enzymes, chorismate synthase and dehydroquinate synthase. Therefore, a portion of the ferrisiderophore reductase activity in B. subtilis may be catalyzed by a reductase that also is essential for aromatic biosynthesis.
The production of a catechol type of siderophore by an iron-depleted culture of cowpeaRhizobium decreased with the increase in the concentration of molybdenum in the growth medium above 1 mM. In vitro addition of molybdenum at pH 5 and 7 changed the absorbance maxima of siderophore, indicating the interaction of molybdenum with siderophore. Tungsten, which is a competitive inhibitor of molybdenum, was unable to dissociate the molybdenum-siderophore conjugate. In the presence of iron, siderophore increased the uptake of molybdenum. Under these conditions, the addition of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid did not show an increase in the uptake. This suggests that an entire siderophore molecule is involved in the transport of molybdenum.
Siderophores are low molecular weight molecules that allow bacteria to acquire iron from host cell proteins. 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) is the only known siderophore produced by the intracellular pathogen Brucella abortus. Here its role in virulence was assessed by evaluating the ability of a mutant with a disruption of the entC gene to survive and replicate in vitro in murine and bovine cells and in vivo in resistant and susceptible murine hosts. It was hypothesized that DHBA is vital for bacterial virulence by its ability to chelate intracellular iron thereby preventing generation of anti-bacterial hydroxyl radicals via the Haber-Weiss reaction, to scavenge reactive oxygen intermediates and for acquisition of iron needed for nutritional purposes. The data showed DHBA played a significant role for bacterial survival in host cells after infection including in murine macrophages cultured in the presence and absence of exogenous interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and in bovine trophoblasts supplemented with erythritol. In severely iron-depleted conditions, DHBA was also found to be essential for growth in murine macrophages. Despite these deficiencies, the absence of DHBA had no long-term significant effect on the number of CFU recovered in vivo from either the Brucella-resistant C57BL/6 mice or Brucella-susceptible IFN-gamma knock-out C57BL/6 mice.
An enantiomeric pair of triscatecholate ligands have been prepared as a model for siderophore enterobactin, using protected derivatives of L- or D-lysine, 1,2-diaminoethane and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The ligands have greater chemical stability and higher water solubility than enterobactin, and form chiral complexes with iron(III), as enterobactin does.
The overall effects of protonation and π-stacking influencing the photoluminescence of the di-topic 9-N-(3-imidazolylpropylamino)methylanthracene (HL) caused by mono-, di- and tri- nitrophenols, namely, 4-nitrophenol, 2,4-dinitrophenol and 2,4,6-trinitrophenol in solid and solution are presented. The observed photo-physical changes caused by nitrophenols are compared with those from 2-nitrobenzoic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Due to Dexter quenching, the solid sample of the 4-nitrophenolate salt is very weakly fluorescent, whereas the 2,4-dinitrophenolate and 2,4,6-trinitrophenolate salts are non-fluorescent. The emission of the 2-nitrobenzoate salt shows a 46 nm red-shift, whereas the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate salt shows partial quenching without a shift. The flexible arm of the cation in each salt has different conformation adjustments, which are reflected in the respective packing patterns. The di-topic behavior of the HL is reflected in the fluorescence emission titrations performed in the solution state. At lower concentrations of nitrophenols, an increase in fluorescence is observed in each case, but at higher concentrations, quenching of the fluorescence emission of the HL is observed. However, upon the addition of 2-nitrobenzoic acid or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to a solution of HL, there is a slight increase in the emission intensity but no quenching takes place at higher concentrations.
In this paper, we aimed to provide thermodynamical parameters, related to the antiradical mechanism, that can implicate the antioxidant activity of six DHBAs: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2-pyrocatechuic acid or hypogallic acid); 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( -resorcylic acid); 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (gentisic acid); 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (gamma-resorcylic acid or 2,6-resorcylic acid); 3,4dihydrox-ybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( -resorcylic acid) (Figure 1 ).
Bacteria were grown in Luria-Bertani (LB)-broth or on LB-agar. When necessary, growth media were supplemented with chloramphenicol (Sigma) at 15 mg/L, ampicillin at 500 mg/L and 'aro mix' (40 mg/L each of L-phe and L-trp, and 10 mg/L each of p-aminobenzoic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid final concentration).
The debate about the toxicity of L-DOPA to dopaminergic neurons has not been resolved. Even though enzymatic and nonenzymatic metabolism of L-DOPA can produce hydrogen peroxide and oxygen free radicals, there has been controversy as to whether L-DOPA generates an oxidant stress in vivo. This study determined whether acute or repeated administration of L-DOPA caused in vivo production of hydroxyl radicals in striatum and other brain regions in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal projections. Salicylate trapping combined with in vivo microdialysis provided measurements of extracellular 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in striatum following L-DOPA administration systemically (100 mg/kg, i.p.) or by intrastriatal perfusion (1 mM, via the microdialysis probe). Tissue concentrations of 2,3-DHBA and salicylate were also measured in striatum, ventral midbrain, and cerebellum following repeated administration of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg, i.p., once daily for 16 days). In each instance, treatment with L-DOPA did not increase 2,3-DHBA concentrations, regardless of the nigrostriatal dopamine system's integrity. When added to the microdialysis perfusion medium, L-DOPA resulted in a significant decrease in the striatal extracellular concentration of 2,3-DHBA. These results suggest that administration of L-DOPA, even at high doses, does not induce hydroxyl radical formation in vivo and under some conditions may actually diminish hydroxyl radical activity. Furthermore, prior damage to the nigrostriatal dopamine system does not appear to predispose surviving dopaminergic neurons to increased hydroxyl radical formation following L-DOPA administration. Unlike L-DOPA, systemic administration of methamphetamine (10 mg/kg, s.c.) produced a significant increase in the concentration of 2,3-DHBA in striatal dialysate, suggesting that increased formation of hydroxyl radicals may contribute to methamphetamine neurotoxicity.
In vivo absorption and oxidative metabolism of salicylic acid in rat small intestine was studied by luminal perfusion experiment. Perfusion through the lumen of proximal jejunum with isotonic medium containing 250 μm sodium salicylate was carried out. Absorption of salicylate was measured by a validated HPLC-DAD method which was evaluated for a number of validation characteristics (specificity, repeatability and intermediate precision, limit of detection, limit of quantification, linearity and accuracy). The method was linear over the concentration range 0.5-50 μg/mL. After liquid-liquid extraction of the perfusion samples oxidative biotransformation of salicylate was also investigated by HPLC-MS. The method was linear over the concentration range 0.25-5.0 μg/mL. Two hydroxylated metabolites of salicylic acid (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were detected and identified. The mean recovery of extraction was 72.4% for 2,3-DHB, 72.5% for 2,5-DHB and 50.1% for salicylic acid, respectively. The methods were successfully applied to investigate jejunal absorption and oxidative metabolism of sodium salicylate in experimental animals. The methods provide analytical background for further metabolic studies of salycilates under modified physiological conditions.
Abstract. We examined the effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a NOS inhibitor, on extracellular potassium ion concentration ([K+]o) and induced hydroxyl free radical (•OH) generation by an in vivo microdialysis technique. A flexibly mounted microdialysis technique was used to detect the generation of •OH in in-vivo rat hearts. The microdialysis probe was implanted in the left ventricular myocardium of anesthetized rats and tissue was perfused with Ringer's solution through the microdialysis probe at a rate of 1.0 µl/min. To measure the level of •OH, sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/µl per min) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of •OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). Induction of high-concentration [K+]o (20, 70 and 140 mM) significantly increased formation of •OH trapped as 2,3-DHBA in a concentration-dependent manner. However, the application of L-NAME (50 mg/kg, i.v.) and allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, abolished the [K+]o depolarization-induced •OH generation. Tyramine (1.0 mM) increased the level of 2,3-DHBA. However, the application of L-NAME did not change the level of 2,3-DHBA. On the other hand, pretreatment with allopurinol (10 mg/kg, i.v.) abolished the KCl- or tyramine-induced •OH generation. Moreover, when iron (II) was administered to [K+]o (70 mM)-pretreated animals, there was a marked increased in the level of 2,3-DHBA. However, the application of L-NAME was not related to a Fenton-type reaction via [K+]o depolarization-induced •OH generation. To examine the effect of L-NAME on ischemic/reperfused rat myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion by left anterior descending coronary artery branch (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, a marked elevation of the level of 2,3-DHBA was observed. However, L-NAME attenuated •OH generation by ischemic/reperfused rat heart. These results suggest that NOS inhibition is associated with a cardioprotective effect due to the suppression of [K+]o depolarization-induced •OH generation.
Helicobacter pylori has been identified in the pathogenesis of chronic active gastritis and peptic ulcer disease and is epidemiologically linked to gastric cancer and lymphoma. Our previous studies have demonstrated enhanced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cultured gastric adenocarcinoma cells (ATCC CRL/1739) in association with H. pylori. Recently, we have isolated and cultured normal human gastric mucosal cells (GMC) from H. pylori-negative endoscopic biopsies. The integrity of these mucosal cells was determined by periodic acid-Schiff staining. We assessed the effects of various H. pylori strains including 60190 (a 87-kDa cytotoxin producing strain), ATCC 43504, and 60190-v1 (in which the cytotoxin gene has been disrupted) on the primary culture of human gastric mucosal cells. The induction of ROS and DNA fragmentation in the mucosal cells in association with these H. pylori strains were assessed by cytochrome c reduction (an index of superoxide anion production), hydroxyl radical production, and DNA fragmentation. Following incubation of the mucosal cells with 1:0.5 and 1:1 ratios of H. pylori strain 60190, approximately 6.2- and 9.9-fold increases were observed in cytochrome c reduction, respectively, as compared to mucosal cells in the absence of H. pylori, demonstrating the production of superoxide anion. The detection of hydroxyl radicals based on the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was determined by using a high-performance liquid chromatograph equipped with an electrochemical detector. Approximately 3.5- and 7.7-fold increases in hydroxyl radical production were observed following incubation of the mucosal cells with 1:0.5 and 1:1 ratios of H. pylori, respectively. Approximately 3.6- and 4.5-fold increases in DNA fragmentation were observed in gastric mucosal cells following incubation with 1:0.5 and 1:1 ratios of H. pylori, respectively. The effects of culture supernatant preparations from H. pylori strains 60190 and 60190-v1 on the enhanced production of ROS and increased DNA fragmentation in mucosal cells were also investigated. Culture supernatant preparations, the prime source of the 87-kDa cytotoxin, from both H. pylori strains 60190 and 60190-v1 were extracted under identical conditions to determine the role of 87-kDa cytotoxin on the enhanced production of ROS and DNA fragmentation. The cytotoxin rich-H. pylori strain 60190 induced greater production of ROS and DNA fragmentation in mucosal cells as compared to the supernatant preparation from H. pylori strain 60190-v1, in which the cytotoxin gene has been disrupted. This study demonstrates that H. pylori induces enhanced production of ROS and DNA damage in association with human gastric mucosal cells and that the 87-kDa cytotoxin protein plays a prime role in the induction of oxidative stress and DNA damage.
Various anti-inflammatory compounds were tested for their influence on the life span of the fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster). 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid increased the median life span by 10.9% when fed to adults at a concentration of 1 X 10(-5)M for the entire adult life span. All other anti-inflammatory compounds including acetylsalicylic acid, acetylsalicylic acid plus cupric chloride, Bufferin, chlorpromazine HC1, dimethylsulfoxide, indomethacin, phenol, salicylic acid, and sodium salicylate either decreased or did not change the life span. Rearing flies on 0.5% (0.060M) dimethylsulfoxide caused a 33.3% reduction in life span compared with an 11.8% reduction when fed during adulthood only. At low doses all of the anti-inflammatory compounds including dimethylsulfoxide proved to be nontoxic as measured by changes in life span.
Summary Our strain pepty 695 of Claviceps purpurea produces clavines, ergometrine and ergotoxine alkaloids under submerged conditions. Clearly a “balanced phase”, “transition phase“ and “maintenance phase” of growth and metabolism according to Borrow et al. can be distinguished. Claviceps paspali strain Li 342 follows the fermentation pattern No.2 according to Taber. There was practically no increase in the total alkaloid yield of the ergotoxine strain after the addition of tryptophan or analogues to the preculture or fermentation medium. D, L-4- methyl-tryptophan caused an inhibition of the alkaloid formation. The metabolism of tryptophan under different conditions in C. paspali was investigated. Protein-bound tryptophan is used for alkaloid synthesis. There is a remarkable difference in the utilization of tryptophan in the pre culture and fermentation mycelium. Most of the administered tryptophan is converted during the alkaloid formation phase equally to alkaloids and to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The metabolism of valine, leucine and proline in the ergotoxine strain was investigated during different phases of development. A considerable protein turnover during the alkaloid production phase was observed like in other strains. Inhibitors of protein synthesis did not affect the formation of the peptide portion of ergotoxine alkaloids. These results seems to indicate that the synthesis of the peptide portion is an non-ribosomal process. Also the “ergoline synthetase“ is not inhibited by adding cycloheximide to C. paspali cultures.
Brucella abortus faces iron deprivation in both nature and the host. To overcome this limitation, Brucella secretes the siderophores 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and brucebactin. A Fur-like protein named Irr has previously been characterized in B. abortus; this protein is present in the α-2 group of Proteobacteria only, where it negatively regulates haem biosynthesis when iron is scarce. Additional evidence that Irr also regulates the synthesis of both siderophores is presented here. Transcriptional lacZ fusion and chemical determinations revealed that Irr induced the transcription of the operon involved in the synthesis of the catecholic siderophores, which were consequently secreted under conditions of iron limitation. Irr was able to bind the upstream region of the operon, as shown by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. A B. abortus irr mutant showed higher intracellular haem content, catalase activity and resistance to hydrogen peroxide than the wild-type strain. The mutation also improved the replication and survival of iron-depleted bacteria within cultured mammalian cells. Although the pathogenesis of Brucella correlates with its ability to replicate intracellularly, pathogenicity was not attenuated when assayed in a murine model.
In order to monitor Fe 3+ ions from different samples, many techniques have been used. A sequential injection procedure was used for determination of Fe(II) and Fe(III) in aquatic samples by a complex procedure. Fe(II) was determined by complexation with 1,10-phenantroline and Fe(III) analysis was performed after reduction in Jones and copperized cadmium columns. For Fe(III) the quantification limits were 0.05 and 0.1 mg L −1 , with a sampling frequency of 20 h −1 [1] . Rapid and low cost colorimetric spot-test determination of Fe(III) was applicable for concentration of Fe(III) from 6 to 45 mmol·L −1 [2] . Separation and preconcentration of Fe(III) ions in various water samples was achieved by sorption at a pH of 3.5 in a minicolumn obtained from Amberlite XAD-4, functionalized with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by coupling it through an -N=N-spacer, then eluted using H 3 PO 4 .
Brucella abortus faces iron deprivation in both nature and the host. To overcome this limitation, Brucella secretes the siderophores 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and brucebactin. A Fur-like protein named Irr has previously been characterized in B. abortus; this protein is present in the a-2 group of Proteobacteria only, where it negatively regulates haem biosynthesis when iron is scarce. Additional evidence that Irr also regulates the synthesis of both siderophores is presented here. Transcriptional lacZ fusion and chemical determinations revealed that Irr induced the transcription of the operon involved in the synthesis of the catecholic siderophores, which were consequently secreted under conditions of iron limitation. Irr was able to bind the upstream region of the operon, as shown by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. A B. abortus irr mutant showed higher intracellular haem content, catalase activity and resistance to hydrogen peroxide than the wild-type strain. The mutation also improved the replication and survival of iron-depleted bacteria within cultured mammalian cells. Although the pathogenesis of Brucella correlates with its ability to replicate intracellularly, pathogenicity was not attenuated when assayed in a murine model.
Brown rot fungi degrade wood, in initial stages, mainly through hydroxyl radicals (•OH) produced by Fenton reactions. These Fenton reactions can be promoted by dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs), which can chelate and reduce Fe(III), increasing the reactivity for different substrates. This mechanism allows the extensive degradation of carbohydrates and the oxidation of lignin during wood biodegradation by brown rot fungi. To understand the enhanced reactivity in these systems, kinetics experiments were carried out, measuring •OH formation by the spin-trapping technique of electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. As models of the fungal DHBs, 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (catechol), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were utilized as well as 1,2-dihydroxy-3,5-benzenedisulfonate as a non-Fe(III)-reducing substance for comparison. Higher amounts and maintained concentrations of •OH were observed in the driven Fenton reactions versus the unmodified Fenton process. A linear correlation between the logarithms of complex stability constants and the •OH production was observed, suggesting participation of such complexes in the radical production.
A gas-liquid chromatographic separation of the methyl ester-methyl ether derivatives of acetylsalicylic acid, salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid is described. Separations were carried out at 155° on a column packed with 5% SE-30 on diatomaceous earth. A hydrogen-flame ionization detector was used.
Desulfovibrio sp. A2 is a novel Gram-negative sulfate-reducing bacterium that was isolated from sediments of the Norilsk mining/smelting area in Russia. The organism possesses a monocistronic operon encoding a 71 kDa periplasmic multicopperoxidase, which we call DA2_CueO. Histidine-tagged DA2_CueO expressed from a plasmid in Escherichia coli and purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography oxidizes Cu+ and Fe2+, and exhibits phenol oxidase activity with 2,2-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,6-dimethoxyphenol as substrates, using O2 as the oxidant. When expressed in an E. coli cueO knock-out strain, DA2_CueO exhibits phenol oxidase activity in vivo and enhances the copper tolerance of the strain. These findings indicate that the DA2_CueO gene of Desulfovibrio sp. A2 encodes a multicopperoxidase with a role in metal ion resistance. The enzyme displays some novel structural features, which are discussed.
A total of 29 strains of Brucella abortus, B. melitensis, B. suis, B. ovis, and B. neotomae were examined for growth and catechol production in a semisynthetic low-iron medium. All strains showed reduced growth yields and, quantitatively, production of catechols varied widely among the different strains with no relationship to species, biotypes, or serotypes of Brucella. No clear correlation between catechol production and growth under iron-limiting conditions was observed. The major catechol was identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and neither other iron-regulated catechols nor hydroxamate type compounds were detected when representative strains of B. abortus or B. melitensis were grown in tryptic soy broth in the presence of iron-sequestering agents.
Aluminum (Al) solubilization from Al borate and its distribution in an octanol/aqueous system (Dow) were determined in the absence and presence of 12 potential Al chelators. Citrate, N,N′-bis-(2-hydroxybenzyl)ethylenediamine- N,N′-diacetic acid (HBED), cyclohexane-1,2-diaminotetraacetic acid (CDTA), diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA), desferrioxamine, and ethylenediamine-N,N′-bis(2-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid) (EDDHA) were 55 to over 100% efficient in solubilizing equimolar amounts of Al. Tetracycline, EDTA, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) were less than 20% efficient. 1,4-Dioxane and fluoride were ineffective. The Dow of Al averaged 0.005. The Dow of the Al·chelator complex was generally less than that of Al, except for HBED and tetracycline (0.04 and 0.96, respectively). The Dow of DHBA, desferrioxamine, EDDHA, and HBED were not influenced by Al, but tetracycline became more lipophilic. These compounds were tested for their ability to increase urinary Al excretion in Al-loaded rabbits. Chelators were given po weekly beginning 2 weeks after Al loading. Urine was obtained hourly from 3 hr prior to 6 hr after chelator administration and analyzed for Al. Fluoride and tetracycline (450 and 4500 μmol/kg) and citrate, NTA, EDTA, CDTA, DTPA, DHBA, HBED, and 1,4-dioxane (150 and 1500 μmol/kg) were ineffective. Following HBED administration, some of the Al-loaded rabbits died, presumably due to redistribution of Al within the rabbit. Following DTPA administration, some of the Al-loaded rabbits died, presumably due to DTPA. Oral EDDHA (1500 μmol/kg) significantly increased urinary Al excretion. EDDHA and desferrioxamine (150 μmol/kg) were administered by po, sc, and iv routes and were found to have comparable potency. The in vitro results may explain some of the in vivo findings. The in vitro methods may be useful to screen out compounds with no chelation potential. EDDHA-like compounds may have potential as alternatives to desferrioxamine in the prevention or treatment of Al accumulation and Al-induced toxicity.
Several strains ofRhizobium trifolii were tested for their ability to synthesize and utilize phenolate or hydroxamate types of siderophores. None of the nodulating strains ofR. trifolii was able to produce detectable amounts of siderophores. Only the non-nodulating strainR. trifolii AR6 formed a phenolate siderophore, which stimulated the growth of the siderophore-negative mutant AR65. Other strains ofR. trifolii could not utilize iron from exogenously supplied Desferal, pseudobactin or citrate. The siderophore fromR. trifolii AR6 and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid slightly stimulated the growth of someR. trifolii strains.
Targeted siderophore quantification during growth. Targeted quantification of siderophores was performed on a single quadrupole LC-MS system (Agilent 6120) equipped with a UV-vis spectrometer, in single-ion monitoring (SIM) mode. Sample aliquots of 1 ml were taken throughout the growth, sterile filtered through 0.2-m syringe filters, and stored at Ϫ20°C until analysis. Prior to analysis, the samples were acidified with 0.1% acetic acid and 0.1% FA. Without further purification (no solid-phase extraction), 100-l sample aliquots were injected onto a C 18 column (Agilent Eclipse Plus C 18 3.5 m, 4.6 by 100 mm) equipped with a matching guard column. The separation proceeded with the same mobilephase system as the one described above for HR-LC-MS analyses (solution A, water-0.1% FA-0.1% acetic acid; solution B, acetonitrile-0.1% FA-0.1% acetic acid) over 30 min, at a flow rate of 0.8 ml/min. Using a 6-port valve, the column outflow was diverted to waste for the first 5.25 min, ensuring that the sample was completely desalted before introduction into the mass spectrometer. For quantification, LC-MS and UV-vis peak areas were determined using MassHunter software (Agilent). Relative elution times of the peaks on this system were matched to the elution times for the siderophores determined on the HR-LC-MS system. Peak areas were converted to concentrations by calibration with isolated standards of vibrioferrin, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), azotochelin, protochelin, and azotobactin ␦. The concentrations of minor derivatives were estimated using the LC-MS response determined for the structurally closely related major siderophores. Seven technical replicates of a spent medium "standard" collected in the stationary phase from a culture grown under the same conditions as the samples used for HR-LC-MS analysis (100 M EDTA and 0.1 M FeCl 3 ) showed relative standard deviations of Ͻ3.5% for the vibrioferrins and the major catechol siderophores. The remaining siderophores were measured with slightly larger standard deviations (Ͻ10% for siderophore concentrations above 0.5 M and Ͻ20% for lower concentrations).
Desulfovibrio sp. A2 is a novel Gram-negative sulfate-reducing bacterium that was isolated from sediments of the Norilsk mining/smelting area in Russia. The organism possesses a monocistronic operon encoding a 71 kDa periplasmic multicopperoxidase, which we call DA2_CueO. Histidine-tagged DA2_CueO expressed from a plasmid in Escherichia coli and purified by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography oxidizes Cu + and Fe 2+ , and exhibits phenol oxidase activity with 2,2-azino-bis(3ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,6-dimethoxyphenol as substrates, using O 2 as the oxidant. When expressed in an E. coli cueO knock-out strain, DA2_CueO exhibits phenol oxidase activity in vivo and enhances the copper tolerance of the strain. These findings indicate that the DA2_CueO gene of Desulfovibrio sp. A2 encodes a multicopperoxidase with a role in metal ion resistance. The enzyme displays some novel structural features, which are discussed.
Comparative studies on germination of conidia of Colletotrichum musae with low and normal iron contents indicated that in addition to lacking the normal requirement for a germination stimulant low-iron conidia germinated substantially faster. Parallel investigations on the iron flux in conidia during germination demonstrated that the presence of germination stimulants did not significantly influence iron uptake or release by conidia. In addition no major intracellular movement of iron between the organelle, wall and soluble fractions of conidia was detected. These findings imply that the action of chelating agents in promoting germination in conidia of C. musae involves the complexing of inhibitory iron at a site within the conidia, so releasing the germination mechanism. Selective accumulation of a germination stimulant (EDTA) within the organelle fraction during induction of germination in iron-replete conidia suggests that the site involved is located in this fraction, possibly on ribosomes. However, the marked differences observed between the relative dimensions of low-iron and iron-replete conidia could implicate the conidial wall as the site of iron complexed by chelating agents involved in stimulation of germination. Swinburne (1976) demonstrated that anthranilic acid in leachates of banana fruit stimulated germination of conidia of Colletotrichum musae, a pathogen responsible for anthracnose lesions on bananas. Harper & Swinburne (1979) subsequently showed that anthranilic acid was metabolized by conidia of C. musae primarily to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). The latter compound was found to be a more effective stimulant of germination than anthranilic acid both in terms of the concentration required to promote germination (Harper & Swinburne, 1979) and also the length of time before onset of germination in the presence of the compound (Harper et al., 1980) . It was therefore suggested that the activity of anthranilic acid as a germination stimulant could be attributed entirely to its conversion in uivo to DHBA rather than to any intrinsic activity.
Ahhrrriation: DHBA, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. (1980) convincingly established the involvement of iron in the germination process. It was observed that conidia of abnormally low iron content [7 pg (g dry wt)-l] produced by growing mycelium on iron-depleted medium (60 ng Fe3+ ml-l) germinated freely in water without the normal requirement for a germination stimulant. Increased iron content in conidia was linearly correlated with a decrease in percentage germination. This inhibition of germination by iron was relieved at all conidial iron contents by anthranilic acid, in the presence of which germination remained uniformly high at levels similar to those of conidia of abnormally low iron content.
We investigated the efficacy of histidine on potassium-depolarization induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation in the extracellular fluid of rat myocardium by a flexibly mounted microdialysis technique (O system). After the rat was anesthetized, a microdialysis probe was implanted in the left ventricular myocardium, and then sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl per minute) was infused to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Infusion of KCl (70 mM) clearly produced an increase in *OH formation. However, when KCl in the presence of a high concentration of histidine (25 mM) was infused through the microdialysis probe, KCl failed to increase the 2,3-DHBA formation. To examine the effect of histidine on ischemia-reperfusion of the myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). When the heart was reperfused, a marked elevation of the levels of 2,3-DHBA was observed in the heart dialysate. However, when corresponding experiments were performed with histidine (25 mM)-pretreated animals, histidine prevented the ischemia-reperfusion induced *OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA. These results indicate that histidine may protect against K+-depolarization-evoked *OH generation in rat myocardium.
Previous experiments have shown that the generation of free hydroxyl radicals in rat brain homogenates is increased following pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) kindling. The present study was performed in order to evaluate the involvement of endogeneous radical defence systems as the superoxide dismutase (SOD) and the level of alpha-tocopherol, an important lipid-soluble and membrane-bound antioxidant in brain homogenate of rats after acute seizure and kindling induced by PTZ. The activities of the total SOD were significantly reduced after acute seizure and tend towards an enhancement in kindled animals. Western blot analysis shows an upregulation of Mn-SOD in rat brain homogenates after kindling. The level of the chain-breaking antioxidant alpha-tocopherol was reduced in acutely convulsing rats and was not modified in kindled rats. Second, we studied the influence of exogeneously supplied radical scavenger alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl-nitrone (PBN) on seizure and kindling following PTZ treatment. After a single injection of PTZ at a dose evoking clonic-tonic seizures, PBN did not modify either the formation of free hydroxyl radicals measured by the levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA or the susceptibility to PTZ. In the kindling group, subchronic treatment with PBN (over a period of 4 weeks) prevented the increase in the formation of free hydroxyl radicals, and the susceptibility to PTZ was transiently decreased during the development of kindling, but PBN did not influence the susceptibility to PTZ in fully kindled rats. Pretreatment with PBN increased the activities of total SOD and the protein content of Mn-SOD and decreased the level of alpha-tocopherol in comparison to saline controls. The results suggest that the formation of free hydroxyl radicals is not reflected by an enhanced susceptibility to PTZ classified according to the modified RACINE scale. Additionally, it may be assumed that the increased generation of hydroxyl radicals in kindled animals is not primary caused by an exhaustion of both the defence systems measured. Adaptive mechanisms, as the induction of Mn-SOD, may be taken into consideration to counteract oxidative stress-mediated free radical formation.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) is the only siderophore described for Brucella, and previous studies suggested that DHBA might contribute to the capacity of these organisms to persist in host macrophages. Employing an isogenic siderophore mutant (ΔentC) constructed from virulent Brucella abortus 2308, however, we found that production of DHBA is not required for replication in cultured murine macrophages or for the establishment and maintenance of chronic infection in the BALB/c mouse model.
We applied an in vivo microdialysis technique to examine free radical generation following ischemic injury in the rat jejunum. For this purpose, we used a microdialysis probe holding system. The salicylate reacts with hydroxyl free radical (.OH) and generates 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), which can be measured electrochemically in picomole amounts by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Therefore, the former was used for trapping the .OH formation. Reperfusion of the jejunum produced progressive elevations in the levels of 2,3-DHBA achieving the maximums at 20 min, after which they decreased progressively to the baseline. These elevations were significant only after 10 min- and 20 min-ischemia. However, this change was not significant in the case of 30 min-ischemia. Ischemia-reperfusion of rat intestine caused morphological changes. These results suggest that .OH production is significantly reduced after 30 min-ischemia providing thus the possibility for more severe intestinal damage. In conclusion our dialysis probe can be useful for the measurement of .OH generation following ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Abstract The compounds Ph4Sb[O(O)CC6H3(OH)2-2,5] (1), Ph4Sb[O(O)CC6H3(OH)2-2,6] (2) and [Ph4Sb]+[Ph4Sb(O2C6H3CO2H)]−(3) were obtained through the interaction of pentaphenylantimony with 2,5-; 2,6- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids in toluene. The structure of synthesized compounds and the coordination type of antimony atoms in 1, 2 and 3 depend on the location of hydroxyl groups in the benzene ring. The antimony atoms in 1 and 2 have distorted trigonal-bipyramidal coordination, through to different degrees. The antimony atom in the anion of compound 3 is hexacoordinated with [C4O2]− surroundings. The compounds 1,2 and 3 have been characterized by elemental analysis, IR- and NMR-spectroscopy, X-ray analysis.
A variety of polymorphonuclear leukocyte (PMN) defects has been described in diabetics, but to date no investigations of monocyte (MN) function have been reported in diabetics. In the present studies, we have employed an underagarose chemotactic assay to examine directed and random motility of MNs from diabetic individuals. Among 45 diabetics and 25 controls there was no significant difference in the maximal distance migrated by the leading front of cells to zymosan-activated serum (chemotaxis) or medium alone (random migration). In contrast, many fewer diabetic MNs [293±28 (SE)] moved toward the attractant than did control MNs (446±21;P<0.001). Random motility of the diabetic MNs (121±14 SE) was also decreased compared to that of the controls (225±24;P<0.0004).In vitro incubation of the diabetic monocytes with insulin (25, 75, and 100 µU/ml) failed to improve chemotactic function. Treatment of diabetic MNs with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a scavenger of H2O2 and O2−, increased both random motility and directed movement, however. In addition,in vivo therapy of 7 diabetic patients with α-tocopherol (vitamin E) resulted in a marked increase in the number of MNs moving toward the chemoattractant (pretherapy, 118±12; posttherapy, 246±31;P<0.05). These results indicate that diabetic individuals have defective monocyte chemotactic function which can be corrected, in part, byin vitro orin vivo treatment with antioxidants. Thus, defective function may be, at least partly, the result of autooxidative membrane damage.
FIELD: pharmacology. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to new solid forms of type 5 phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDE-5), namely to crystalline compounds consisting of a tadalafil of formula T and coformer Y in which Y is selected from 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, D-malic acid and L-tartaric acid, especially to complex cocrystals and their solvates, as well as to pharmaceutical compositions containing the above compounds as a useful active ingredient. EFFECT: high permanent storage stability. 14 cl, 20 dwg
Urinary catechols are highly abundant: catechol is present at 150 µM34,38 ,39 , 4-methylcatechol at 30 µM, and pyrogallol at 500 µM29,30 (free catechols are 1-5% of these totals). This means that when Scn-Ngal plasma levels rise 10-50010,12,13 fold (0.1µM) and iron is released from damaged tissues (such as the kidney affected by acute injury and glomerular diseases),40,41,42, Scn-Ngal (~0.1 µM) may be constitutively saturated by excess free catechol (~1 µM), especially given that the presence of iron enhances the affinity for the complex 100 fold. Hence, perhaps even as much as 400 mg (17 µmole) of ScnNgal12, ~1mg of iron and ~2mg catechol may undergo filtration by the glomerulus and recycling in the proximal tubule per day by a megalin ( Supplementary Fig. 10 ) or 24p3R dependent endosomal pathway. These data emphasize the potential role of Scn-Ngal as a scavenger of catechol, which is known to mobilize Fe III even from proteins17, and a scavenger of the catechol:iron complex, which is known to participate in Fenton reactions2,22. Ligation by the Ngal-Scn calyx conversely quenched iron reduction and hydroxyradical activation by catechol:iron. Additionally, since the donation of iron to microbes may be facilitated by different types of catechols such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Salmonella43 and Brucella) and catecholamines (E. coli 44 and Bordatella 45), the clearance of the Scn-Ngal:catechol:iron complex in the kidney might also serve a broad role in the defense against microorganisms, sharing this property with the clearance of ScnNgal:Ent:iron by the kidney12.
The invention discloses Ensiferadhaerens CGMCC 6315 which is a bacterium having a nitrogen-fixing capability. The strain is also a plant growth promoting rhizobacterium (PGPR), and can produce indoleacetic acid (IAA), extracellular polysaccharide (EPS), siderophore, salicylic acid (SA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and ammonia. Under the stress condition of a salt containing sodium chloride, soybeans inoculated with the E.adhaerens CGMCC 6315 can have a higher germination rate in comparison with a control group which is not inoculated with the strain.
Bipleiophylline is a highly complex monoterpene indole alkaloid composed of two pleiocarpamine units anchored on an aromatic spacer platform. The synthesis of bipleiophylline is considered as a mountain to climb by the organic chemistry community. Here, a unified oxidative coupling protocol between indole derivatives and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, mediated by silver oxide, has been developed to produce the core of bipleiophylline. This method also allows the independent preparation of benzofuro[2,3-b]indolenine and isochromano[3,4-b]indolenine scaffolds, depending only on the nature of the aromatic platform used. The procedure has been applied to simple indole derivatives and to more challenging monoterpene indole alkaloids, thereby furnishing natural-product-like structures. The use of scarce pleiocarpamine as the starting indole allows the first syntheses of bipleiophylline and of its biosynthetic precursor, voacalgine A. The structure of the latter has been reassigned in the course of our investigations by 2D NMR and displays an isochromano[3,4-b]indolenine motif instead of a benzofuro[2,3-b]indolenine.
The authors have previously shown that thermal injury to the skin of rats results in the development of acute lung injury that is susceptible to systemic treatment of animals with catalase and dependent on the presence of neutrophils. The current studies have been expanded for exploration of the nature of the neutrophil-derived oxygen products responsible for the lung injury and have also focused on evidence of the appearance of products of lipid peroxidation (conjugated dienes). With respect to the former, treatment of rats with iron chelators (deferoxamine mesylate, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid), with scavengers of hydroxyl radical (dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl thiourea, sodium benzoate), or with vitamin E affords a significant degree of protection from acute lung injury as assessed by changes in lung vascular permeability and by morphologic parameters. These data suggest that lung vascular injury after thermal trauma of the skin is related to the generation by neutrophils of the hydroxyl radical. Conjugated dienes have been demonstrated to appear sequentially both in the burned skin (at 1/4 hour) and in the lungs (at 2 hours), as well as in the plasma (with peaks at 1/2 and at 3 hours) after thermal injury. The appearance of the conjugated dienes in plasma at the two intervals of time is greatly diminished if animals are pretreated with the iron chelator deferoxamine, with catalase, or with scavengers of hydroxyl radical. Furthermore, the appearance of conjugated dienes in plasma at 30 minutes and 3 hours is significantly diminished if animals are depleted of neutrophils, complement-depleted, or the burned skin is excised immediately after thermal injury. These data indicate a linkage between thermal trauma of skin, secondary injury of lung, and appearance in plasma and tissues of products of lipid peroxidation.
The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of nisin, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and a combination of nisin and DHBA incorporated into nanofibers prepared from poly(D,L-lactide) (PDLLA) and poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) on biofilm formation of a methicillin-resistant strain of Staphylococcus aureus (strain Xen 31). Biofilm formation decreased by 88% after 24 h of exposure to nanofibers containing nisin and DHBA (NDF), compared to a 63% decrease when exposed to nanofibers containing only DHBA (DF) and a 3% decrease when exposed to nanofibers containing only nisin (NF). Planktonic cell numbers of biofilms exposed to nanofibers without nisin or DHBA (CF) and NF increased from no detectable OD(595nm) readings to 0.35 and 0.3, respectively, within the first 8 h of exposure, followed by a steady decline over the following 16 h. Planktonic cells of biofilms treated with DF increased from no detectable OD(595nm) readings to 0.05 after 8 h of exposure and remained more-or-less constant for the duration of the experiment. Planktonic cells of biofilms exposed to NDF increased from OD(595nm) 0.03 after 8 h of exposure and to 0.2 over the following 16 h. Biofilm formation increased with increasing concentrations of FeCl3·6H2O, which suggests that iron is required for S. aureus Xen 31 to form a biofilm. However, when exposed to NDF, biofilm formation decreased significantly in the presence of increasing concentrations of iron. This suggests that NDF may be used to prevent biofilm formation of MRSA and control infection.
The removal of some of pollutants including catechol, 3-methylcatechol, 3-methoxycatechol, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by adsorption onto activated carbon cloth (ACC) at 35.0 ± 0.1°C was investigated. The equilibrium experimental data were fitted to Langmuir, Freundlich, Temkin, Langmuir-Freundlich, and Redlich-Peterson isotherms. Also the kinetic experimental data were fitted to the pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order kinetic models. It was found that the pseudo-second-order model describes the kinetic of adsorption better than the other one. By comparing the obtained results with the previously reported data, it can be concluded that ACC is a high efficient adsorbent for removal of phenolic compounds from aqueous solutions.
The oxidation of 2′,7′-dichlorofluorescin (DCFH) to a fluorescent product is currently used to evaluate oxidant stress in cells. However, there is considerable uncertainty as to the enzymatic and nonenzymatic pathways that may result in DCFH oxidation. Iron/hydrogen peroxide-induced DCFH oxidation was inhibited by catalase or by the hydroxyl radical scavenger dimethylsulfoxide; however, superoxide dismutase (SOD) had no effect on DCFH oxidation. The formation of hydroxyl radical (indicated by the oxidation of salicylic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) was proportional to DCFH oxidation, suggesting that the hydroxyl radical is responsible for the iron/peroxide-mediated oxidation of DCFH. Utilizing a superoxide generating system consisting of hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase, oxidation of DCFH was unaffected by SOD, catalase or desferoxamine, and stimulated by removing hypoxanthine from the reaction mixture. In contrast, SOD or elimination of hypoxanthine abolished superoxide formation. In addition, potassium superoxide did not support the oxidation of DCFH. Thus, superoxide is not involved in DCFH oxidation. Boiling xanthine oxidase eliminated its concentration-dependent oxidation of 1 μM DCFH, indicating that xanthine oxidase ian enzymatically utilize DCFH as a high affinity substrate. Kinetic studies of the oxidation of DCFH by xanthine oxidase indicated a K m(app) of 0.62μM. Hypoxanthine competed with DCFH with a K i(app) of 1.03 mM. These studies suggest that DCFH oxidation may be a useful indicator of oxidative stress. However, other types of cellular damage may produce DCFH oxidation. For example, conditions or chemicals that damage intracellular membranes may release to the cytoplasm oxidases or peroxidases that might use DCFH as a substrate, similar to xanthine oxidase
The behaviors associated with the neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine were evaluated in BALB/c mice. Hyperthermia and behavioral observations were measured 60 min after each subcutaneous injection of methamphetamine (4x4 or 8 mg/kg) or saline, each given 2 h apart. The behavioral observations included stereotyped behaviors, incidence of hemorrhage in breast, salivation and self-injurious behavior (SIB). Repeated administration of methamphetamine produced these behavioral changes and hyperthermia, but resulted in hypothermia by the final injection (8 mg/kg). In addition, the methamphetamine treatment induced a long-lasting dopamine depletion of similar magnitude in the 4 and 8 mg/kg-treated animals. In a time course study striatal monoamine levels were measured 60 min after each injection of these doses. The first and second injections of methamphetamine (8 mg/kg) produced a drastic increase in striatal 3-methoxytyramine; this failed to occur after the third or fourth injection of the same dose. In contrast, 4 mg/kg of methamphetamine also produced an increase in 3-methoxytyramine after the second and third injections of the drug and, in this case, these were maintained for the duration of the treatment. Striatal 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels also drastically decreased following both doses of methamphetamine, suggesting inhibition of monoamine oxidase in striatum. Moreover, a single injection of methamphetamine increased striatal 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid formation. These results suggest that the incidence of hyperthermia, SIB and striatal dopamine neurotoxicity are closely linked to striatal dopamine release and inhibition of monoamine oxidase produced by methamphetamine in BALB/c mice.
Intrastriatal injection of the reversible succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor malonate results in both chemically induced hypoxia and striatal lesions that are similar to those seen in Huntington's disease and cerebral ischaemia. The mechanisms leading to neuronal death involve secondary excitotoxicity, the release of dopamine from nigrostriatal fibres and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) including nitric oxide (NO) and hydroxyl radicals. Here, we further investigated the contribution and mechanism of dopamine on malonate-induced striatal lesions. Prior lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway with 6-OHDA or the depletion of striatal dopamine stores by pretreatment with reserpine, an inhibitor or the vesicular monoamine transporter type-2 (VMAT2), in combination with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine resulted in a significant reduction of malonate-induced striatal lesion volumes. This was paralleled by block or reduction of the malonate-induced generation of ROS, as measured by the conversions of salicylate to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) using microdialysis. Systemic or intrastriatal application of L-DOPA or dopamine, respectively, reconstituted malonate toxicity and the generation of ROS in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. Block of the dopamine transporter by GBR12909 did not result in a reduction of malonate-induced dopamine release, but significantly reduced the generation of hydroxyl radicals. The D2 receptor agonist lisuride and the mixed D1 and D2 receptor agonist apomorphine, but not the D1 receptor agonist SKF38393, partially restored malonate toxicity in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats without increasing the generation of ROS. In line with these results sulpiride, an inhibitor of D2 receptors, reduced the malonate-induced lesion volume, whereas SCH23390, an inhbitor of D1 receptors, was ineffective. Our data suggest that malonate-induced dopamine toxicity to energetically impaired neurons is mediated by two independent pathways: (i) dopamine transporter uptake-dependent, dopamine receptor-independent generation of ROS, and (ii) excessive stimulation of D2 receptors.
Oxidative stress is one of the mechanisms which may be important in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. In the current study, the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) perfusion on hydroxyl radical formation in the mouse striatum were investigated using the in vivo salicylate trapping microdialysis technique. The latter uses salicylate as a trapping agent for hydroxyl radicals with formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), which is measured by HPLC. Two different approaches of the technique were validated in mice. First, perfusion of the trapping agent salicylate (1 mM) via the probe in combination with 6-OHDA (5 μM) was used to screen for radical scavenging properties of compounds in mice. Alternatively, striatal administration of 6-OHDA in a concentration known to induce nigrostriatal denervation (1mM), without the trapping agent, allowed to maximally challenge the neuronal microenvironment and as such to investigate both its acute and long-term effects. In the first method, as expected, glutathione (GSH) (1.5 mM) prevented the 6-OHDA-induced increase in 2,3-DHBA levels. In the second method, GSH prevented the hydroxyl radical formation, while depletion of GSH with 2-cyclohexen-1-one (CHO) resulted in significantly higher 2,3-DHBA levels than when 6-OHDA was perfused alone. Three weeks after the local 6-OHDA perfusion, the total striatal dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content were reduced by 30%, compared to the intact striatum, accompanied by a reduction in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive (ir) nerve terminals. This suggests that the second method can be used to determine the acute as well as the long-term effects of 6-OHDA in the mouse striatum.
Lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs) are copper-dependent enzymes that perform oxidative cleavage of recalcitrant polysaccharides. We have purified and characterized a recombinant family AA9 LPMO from Gloeophyllum trabeum , Gt LPMO9B, which is active on both cellulose and xyloglucan. Activity of the enzyme was tested in the presence of three different reductants: ascorbic acid, gallic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). When using standard aerobic conditions typically used in LPMO experiments, the former two reductants could drive LPMO catalysis whereas 2,3-DHBA could not. In agreement with the recent discovery that H 2 O 2 can drive LPMO catalysis, we show that gradual addition of H 2 O 2 allowed LPMO activity at very low, sub-stoichiometric (relative to products formed) reductant concentrations. Most importantly, we found that while 2,3-DHBA is not capable of driving the LPMO reaction under standard aerobic conditions, it can do so in the presence of externally added H 2 O 2 . At alkaline pH, 2,3-DHBA is able to drive the LPMO reaction without externally added H 2 O 2 and this ability overlaps entirely with endogenous generation of H 2 O 2 by Gt LPMO9B-catalyzed oxidation of 2,3-DHBA. These findings support the notion that H 2 O 2 is a co-substrate of LPMOs, and provide insight into how LPMO reactions depend on, and may be controlled by, the choice of pH and reductant. IMPORTANCE Lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases promote enzymatic depolymerization of lignocellulosic materials by microorganisms, due to their ability to oxidatively cleave recalcitrant polysaccharides. The properties of these copper-dependent enzymes are currently of high scientific and industrial interest. We describe a previously uncharacterized fungal LPMO and show how reductants, which are needed to prime the LPMO by reducing Cu(II) to Cu(I) and for supplying electrons during catalysis, affect enzyme efficiency and stability. The results support claims that H 2 O 2 is a natural co-substrate for LPMOs by demonstrating that when using certain reductants, catalysis can only be driven by H 2 O 2 and not by O 2 . Furthermore, we show how auto-inactivation resulting from endogenous generation of H 2 O 2 in the LPMO-reductant system may be prevented. Finally, we identified a reductant that leads to enzyme activation without any endogenous H 2 O 2 generation, allowing for improved control of LPMO reactivity and providing a valuable tool for future LPMO research.
A method for detecting hydroxyl radi-cal produced in Fenton reaction by usinghigh perform-ance liquid chromatogragh connected withelectrochemical detector(HPLC-EC)was established.and the effects of Fe2+,H2O2 as well as ATP,ADPand AMP on hydroxyl radical production in Fenton re-action were investigated.By using this method,effectof captopril to eliminate hydroxyl radical in vitro wasalso studied.In the assay,salicylic acid(SA)capturedhydroxyl radical in Fenton reaction and was oxidizedto 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxy-benzoic acid.Which could be determined by captoprilHPLC-EC with a detecting limit of 0.4ng In ourstudy,it was found that Fe2+(0.33 mmol·L -1 -8.0mmol·L-1)dose-dependently produced hydroxyl rad-ical,while H2O2(0.00025%-0.3 %)didn't ATP andADP,but not AMP,could significantly increase theproduction of hydroxyl radical.Captopril coulddose-dependently eliminate hydroxyl radical producedin Fenton reaction.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are capable of cleaving almost all macromolecules of the extracellular connective tissue matrix and are thought to play a major role in tissue destructive inflammatory diseases such as periodontitis. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of siderophores, which are iron-chelating molecules produced by a variety of microorganisms, on the activity of MMP-2. Heat-denatured type I collagen (gelatin) was incubated with p-aminophenylmercuric acetate-activated MMP-2 and siderophores. Degradation of gelatin was monitored by SDS-PAGE and Coomassie blue staining. Ferrichrome, rhodotorulic acid, desferoxamine mesylate and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were found to inhibit the MMP-2 activity whereas β-phenylpyruvic acid had no effect. The inhibition could be reversed by adding an excess calcium chloride or ferric chloride to the assay mixtures. Our study suggests that microbial siderophores may represent new-potential therapeutic molecules for the treatment of destructive inflammatory diseases involving excess MMP-2 activity, such as periodontitis.
For the past several years, we have searched for an orally effective iron-chelating drug and report here on several compounds which warrant further investigations based on their ability to promote iron excretion in the hypertransfused rat. Administrered orally, 2,3-dihydroxybenzyolglycine induced both urinary and fecal iron excretion, suggesting that a conjugate of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid may be more efficacious than the parent compound. Tropolone, although rather toxic, stimulated fecal excretion of iron when given p.o. at low doses. Evaluation of less toxic derivatives of tropolone appears to be justifiable. L-Histidine may also be of use in chelatin therapy. Fecal iron excretion is significantly increased in response to oral doses of this essential amino acid. Lastly, cholylhydroxamic acid proved to be the most efficacious oral agent examined thus far. A marked increase in fecal iron excretion results from its administration.
Chlorogenic and caffeic acids are major phenolic acids in the epidermis and subtending cell layers of peach fruit (Prunus persica). Their concentrations are especially high in peach genotypes with a high level of resistance to the brown rot fungus,Monilinia fructicola, and decline as fruit mature with a corresponding increase in disease susceptibility. Chlorogenic acid and caffeic acid at concentrations up to 5 mmdid not inhibitM. fructicolaspore germination or mycelial growth in culture. In cultures amended with either of these phenolic acids, cutinase activity was reduced with a sharp decrease apparent at 0.1 mm. The presence of caffeic acid in cultures during growth on cutin prevented the appearance of two major cutinase isoforms as well as additional esterases in the filtrates. Cutinase activity was not directly inhibited by chlorogenic acid or caffeic acid, nor by oxidized caffeic acid. A series of cinnamic and benzoic acids with various degrees of hydroxylation and methoxylation of the aromatic ring also suppressed cutinase levels in culture, indicating the effect was not specific to the naturally abundant chlorogenic and caffeic acids. Cinnamic acid, with an unsubstituted aromatic ring, was least suppressive, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a known chelating agent that can facilitate iron transport, was most suppressive. We propose that the high concentration of chlorogenic acid present in immature fruit and in fruit from genotypes with high levels of disease resistance may contribute to the brown rot resistance of the tissue by interference with the production of factors involved in degradation of host polymers rather than by direct toxicity to the pathogen. Chlorogenic acid and related phenolics in combination with other factors such as iron could function to arrestM. fructicolain quiescent infections associated with immature and ripening fruit.
Abstract To study the intermediacy of isochorismate in the biosynthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in Catharanthus roseus cell cultures, an incorporation study using 〚1- 13 C〛glucose was carried out. Based on a significantly different enrichment at the positions of C-2 and C-6 in 2,3-DHBA, and low incorporation at C-7, it is concluded that indeed isochorismate is an intermediate. In the case of phenylalanine as an intermediate, a symmetrical partitioning of the label between C-2 and C-6 would occur, and C-7 would be strongly labeled.
Analysis of the production of siderophores by thin layer chromatography (TLC). SlFG3 was grown in 10 ml of M9 medium for 12 hours at 28 ± 2 °C. The cells were removed by centrifugation (8000 × g, 10 min). Siderophores were extracted from the supernatant with 10 ml of ethyl acetate, dried and resuspended in 10 μl of 50% aqueous ethanol. Siderophores were then separated on TLC plates (Macherey-Nagel, Düren, Germany), coated with a 0.25 mm layer of silica gel, with methanol/acetonitrile (7:3, v/v). Iron-binding compounds were identified by sputtering the TLC plates with 0.05% ferric chloride in ethanol. The commercial siderophores 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and acetohydroxamic acid (Sigma, Darmstadt, Germany) were used as controls for migration during TLC.
Free radical-induced brain oxidative injury is thought to play a role in the etiology and pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. Iron (Fe) can catalyze the Fenton reaction and mediate hydroxyl radical (HO . -) generation to initiate lipid peroxidation (LP). The neurotoxin aluminum (Al) can facilitate Fe-mediated LP. However, the mechanism ofAl-facilitated LP has not been determined. In this study, microdialysis (MD) of the ventral hippocampus was performed in rats exposed to Fe and/or Al sulfate via the MD probe. Salicylate (SA) was includedin the dialysate to trap the HO . by forming 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). 2,3-DHBA was quantified by capillary column gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) as a trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivative with 2,4-DHBA as an internal standard. Fe-catalyzed HO . generation was shown in brain interstitial fluid. Aluminum alone did not initiate HO . generation. Al did not facilitate Fe-catalyzed HO . generation. Therefore, the previously reported Al facilitation of Fe-mediated oxidative injury must be due to mechanisms other than increased extracellular HO . generation.
We investigated the effect of hetastarch, used for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, on neuronal cell damage by oxidative stress, a main pathogenic mechanism in ischemic stroke. Neuronally differentiated PC12 cells (nPC12 cells) were treated with varying concentrations of hetastarch and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and their viability was measured with a 3,(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and trypan blue staining. The effect of hetastarch on free radical production by H2O2 was evaluated using the fluorescent probe 2′,′-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA) and by quantifying the amount of 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Additionally, the expression levels of BAX, Bid, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, cytosolic cytochrome c, and cleaved caspase-3 were examined using Western blot analysis. Following exposure to 100 µM H2O2, the viability of nPC12 cells significantly decreased; however, cell viability increased with hetastarch treatment. Free radical production related to H2O2 exposure was significantly reduced after 100 µM hetastarch treatment. The expression levels of BAX, Bid, cytosolic cytochrome c, and activated caspase-3 were reduced, whereas Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL levels increased in H2O2-injured nPC12 cells treated with 100 µM hetastarch, as compared with nPC12 cells that were treated with only 100 µM H2O2. These results demonstrate that hetastarch can reduce oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell death. Drug Dev Res 73: 35–42, 2012. © 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Conidia from Colletotrichum musae cultures grown in iron-deficient medium (Fe 3+ −1 ) form progressive lesions on banana fruits more rapidly than conidia from cultures grown in iron-replete medium (Fe 3+ 500 ng ml −1 ). The addition of iron to iron-deficient conidia reduced the rate of progressive lesion formation to that of the iron-replete fungus. Conversely, the addition of the iron-chelating agents, anthranilic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid or a bacterial siderophore, to iron-replete conidia increased the rate of progressive lesion formation to that of the iron-deficient fungus. Browning symptoms and antifungal compound accumulation were absent or reduced in bananas inoculated with iron-deficient conidia or iron-replete conidia treated with the iron-chelating agents. Cell-wall glucans extracted from C. musae hyphae grown in iron-deficient medium elicited browning and the accumulation of the same antifungal compounds as the elicitor from hyphae grown in iron-replete medium. The addition of the iron-chelating agents to the elicitors did not inhibit the formation of the antifungal compounds.
Abstract Previous experiments have shown that the generation of free hydroxyl radicals in rat brain homogenates is increased following pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) kindling. The present study was performed in order to evaluate the involvement of endogeneous radical defence systems as the superoxide dismutase (SOD) and the level of α-tocopherol, an important lipid-soluble and membrane-bound antioxidant in brain homogenate of rats after acute seizure and kindling induced by PTZ. The activities of the total SOD were significantly reduced after acute seizure and tend towards an enhancement in kindled animals. Western blot analysis shows an upregulation of Mn-SOD in rat brain homogenates after kindling. The level of the chain-breaking antioxidant α-tocopherol was reduced in acutely convulsing rats and was not modified in kindled rats. Second, we studied the influence of exogeneously supplied radical scavenger α-phenyl-N-tert-butyl-nitrone (PBN) on seizure and kindling following PTZ treatment. After a single injection of PTZ at a dose evoking clonic–tonic seizures, PBN did not modify either the formation of free hydroxyl radicals measured by the levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA or the susceptibility to PTZ. In the kindling group, subchronic treatment with PBN (over a period of 4 weeks) prevented the increase in the formation of free hydroxyl radicals, and the susceptibility to PTZ was transiently decreased during the development of kindling, but PBN did not influence the susceptibility to PTZ in fully kindled rats. Pretreatment with PBN increased the activities of total SOD and the protein content of Mn-SOD and decreased the level of α-tocopherol in comparison to saline controls. The results suggest that the formation of free hydroxyl radicals is not reflected by an enhanced susceptibility to PTZ classified according to the modified RACINE scale. Additionally, it may be assumed that the increased generation of hydroxyl radicals in kindled animals is not primary caused by an exhaustion of both the defence systems measured. Adaptive mechanisms, as the induction of Mn-SOD, may be taken into consideration to counteract oxidative stress-mediated free radical formation.
ydroxybiphenyl waspartially purified. Bothsubstrates yielded yellow metacleavage compounds thatwereidentified as2-hydroxy-6-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-6-oxo-2,4-hexadienoic acidand 2-hydroxy-6-(2,3-dihydroxyphenyl)-6-oxo-2,4-hexadienoic acid, respectively, bygaschromatography-mass spectrometry analysis oftheir respective trimethylsilyl derivatives. Themeta-cleavage products werenotstable inaqueous incubation mixtures butgaverise totheir cyclization products, 3-(chroman-4-on-2-yl)pyruvate and 3-(8-hydroxychroman-4-on-2-yl)pyruvate, respectively. Incontrast tothemeta-cleavage compounds, which wereturned overtosalicylic acid and2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, thecyclization products arenotsubstrates to themeta-cleavage product hydrolase activity. NADH-dependent salicylate monooxygenase activity catalyzed theconversions ofsalicylic acidand2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acidtocatechol andpyrogallol, respectively. The partially purified extradiol ring cleavage dioxygenase activity that acted onthehydroxybiphenyls also produced 2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde and2-hydroxymuconic acidfromcatechol andpyrogallol, respectively.
Aspirin has been proposed as a possible chemopreventive agent. On the other hand, a recent cohort study showed that aspirin may increase the risk for pancreatic cancer. To clarify whether aspirin is potentially carcinogenic, we investigated the formation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG), which is correlated with the incidence of cancer, in cultured cells treated with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), a metabolite of aspirin. 2,3-DHBA induced 8-oxodG formation in the PANC-1 human pancreatic cancer cell line. 2,3-DHBA-induced DNA single-strand breaks were also revealed by comet assay using PANC-1 cells. Flow cytometric analyses showed that 2,3-DHBA increased the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in PANC-1 cells. The 8-oxodG formation and ROS generation were also observed in the HL-60 leukemia cell line, but not in the hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-resistant clone HP100 cells, suggesting the involvement of H(2)O(2). In addition, an hprt mutation assay supported the mutagenicity of 2,3-DHBA. We investigated the mechanism underlying the 2,3-DHBA-induced DNA damage using (32)P-labeled DNA fragments of human tumor suppressor genes. 2,3-DHBA induced DNA damage in the presence of Cu(II) and NADH. DNA damage induced by 2,3-DHBA was enhanced by the addition of histone peptide-6 [AKRHRK]. Interestingly, 2,3-DHBA and histone peptide-6 caused base damage in the 5'-ACG-3' and 5'-CCG-3' sequences, hotspots of the p53 gene. Bathocuproine, a Cu(I) chelator, and catalase inhibited the DNA damage. Typical hydroxyl radical scavengers did not inhibit the DNA damage. These results suggest that ROS derived from the reaction of H(2)O(2) with Cu(I) participate in the DNA damage. In conclusion, 2,3-DHBA induces oxidative DNA damage and mutations, which may result in carcinogenesis.
The multicopper oxidase CueO had previously been demonstrated to exhibit phenoloxidase activity and was implicated in intrinsic copper resistance in Escherichia coli. Catecholates can potentially reduce Cu(II) to the prooxidant Cu(I). In this report we provide evidence that CueO protects E. coli cells by oxidizing enterobactin, the catechol iron siderophore of E. coli, in the presence of copper. In vitro, a mixture of enterobactin and copper was toxic for E. coli cells, but the addition of purified CueO led to their survival. Deletion of fur resulted in copper hypersensitivity that was alleviated by additional deletion of entC, preventing synthesis of enterobactin. In addition, copper added together with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid or enterobactin was able to induce a Phi(cueO-lacZ) operon fusion more efficiently than copper alone. The reaction product of the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid oxidation by CueO that can complex Cu(II) ions was determined by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy and identified as 2-carboxymuconate.
Abstract Studies have suggested that cAMP signaling pathways may be associated with the production of reactive oxygen species. In this study, we examined how modifications in cAMP signaling affected the production of hydroxyl radicals in rat striatum using microdialysis to measure extracellular 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), which is a hydroxyl radical adduct of salicylate. Up to 50 nmol of the cell-permeative cAMP mimetic 8-bromo-cAMP (8-Br-cAMP) increased 2,3-DHBA in a dose-dependent manner (there was no additional increase in 2,3-DHBA at 100 nmol). Another cAMP mimetic, dibutyryl cAMP (db-cAMP), caused a nonsignificant increase in 2,3-DHBA at 50 nmol and a significant decrease at 100 nmol. Up to 20 nmol of forskolin, which is a direct activator of adenylyl cyclase, increased 2,3-DHBA, similar to the effect of 8-Br-cAMP; however, forskolin resulted in a much greater increase in 2,3-DHBA. A potent inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), H89 (500 μM), potentiated the 8-Br-cAMP- and forskolin-induced increases in 2,3-DHBA and antagonized the inhibitory effect of 100 nmol of db-cAMP. Interestingly, the administration of 100 nmol of 8-bromo-cGMP alone or in combination with H89 had no significant effect on 2,3-DHBA levels. Doses of 100 nmol of a preferential PKA activator (6-phenyl-cAMP) or a preferential PKA inhibitor (8-bromoadenosine-3′,5′-cyclic monophosphorothionate, Rp-isomer; Rp-8-Br-cAMPS), which also inhibits the cAMP-mediated activation of Epac (the exchange protein directly activated by cAMP), suppressed or enhanced, respectively, the formation of 2,3-DHBA. Up to 100 nmol of 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-2′- O -methyladenosine-cAMP, which is a selective activator of Epac, dose-dependently stimulated the formation of 2,3-DHBA. These findings suggest that cAMP signaling plays contradictory roles (stimulation and inhibition) in the production of hydroxyl radicals in rat striatum by differential actions of Epac and PKA. These roles might contribute to the production of hydroxyl radicals concomitant with cAMP in carbon monoxide poisoning, because the formation of 2,3-DHBA was potentiated by the PKA inhibitor H89 and suppressed by Rp-8-Br-cAMPS, which inhibits PKA and Epac.
An attempt was made to develop a new therapeutic delivery system which would play a dual role of attenuating MMP activity in the wounds and also prevent infection by controlled delivery of antimicrobials. A catechol type MMP inhibitor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) was conjugated to gelatin microspheres using EDC/NHS as coupling agents. The potential of the modified gelatin microspheres (DHB-MS) to attenuate the proteases such as MMP 2 and MMP 9 in the diabetic wound tissues was investigated by gelatin zymography. Further the modified microspheres were loaded with doxycycline and impregnated in a reconstituted collagen scaffold as novel wound dressing. The in vitro release behavior of doxycycline from both DHB-MS and DHB-MS impregnated collagen scaffold was investigated. DHB-MS when incubated with the tissue lysate for 6h displayed the complete inhibition of the MMPs in the tissue lysate. The in vitro drug release studies from the collagen scaffold exhibited the burst release of 44%, exerted immediate chemo prophylaxis and sustained delivery for 72 h. The MTT assay and fluorescent labeling with calcein AM indicated that the DHB-MS is biocompatible to human foreskin fibroblasts. Thus the system developed provides wider scope to control the pathogens involved in infection and also the excess matrix degradation.
PURPOSE ::: A previous study indicated that hydroxyl radicals are generated in the cat retina during the early reperfusion phase after 90 minutes of ischemia. Salicylate was injected intravenously, and its conversion to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) served as a marker of hydroxyl radicals. The authors attempted to prevent this free radical generation during reperfusion. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: After salicylate administration, both eyes (15 minutes apart) of 15 cats were subjected to 90 minutes retinal ischemia. Following 5 minutes of reperfusion in the control eye, it was enucleated and processed for DHBA quantitation. Then, 7.5 mg of Zn-desferrioxamine (Zn-DFO) was injected intravenously into nine cats and saline into six cats. Five minutes later, reperfusion was induced in the experimental eye for 5 minutes, followed by enucleation. In one eye each of 12 other cats, scotopic electroretinographic (ERG) studies were carried out during 90 minutes of ischemia and 16 to 18 hours of reperfusion. Five minutes before termination of the ischemia, six animals were injected with 7.5 mg Zn-DFO and six with saline. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The normalized levels of 2,3-DHBA were lower in the experimental eyes than in their fellow controls only after Zn-DFO treatment (P = 0.01). In the ERG studies, after 16 to 18 hours of reperfusion, the mean b-wave-ERG amplitudes in the eyes of the saline-treated cats (n = 6) were 8.4% +/- 4.0% of the preischemic stage, and 70.5% +/- 6.7% of the Zn-DFO-treated cats (n = 6, P = 0.004). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Protection of the cat retina against ischemia and reperfusion injury by Zn-DFO was evident, most probably through its inhibitory effect on the generation of hydroxyl radicals during reperfusion.
A dedicated spectrofluorimeter using ultrashort laser pulses as an excitation source was developed to measure the fluorescence properties of organic ligands for metal ion complexation with organic ligands. The laser system consists of an oscillator system for generation of femtosecond laser pulses, an amplifier system to increase the pulse energy of the generated pulses to about 2 mJ and an optical parametrical amplifier system to provide tunable laser pulses over a wide wavelength range (280 nm-10 microm). The laser pulses were applied to the sample and the emitted fluorescence was detected using a fast-gating intensified CCD camera-based spectrometer. To verify the performance of the laser, the well-known protonation constant [Pure Appl. Chem. 69 (1997) 329] of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was determined. The fluorescence lifetime of the excited species was determined as 375+/-32 ps in the pH range from 1.0 to 6.0, having a fluorescence emission maximum at 438 nm. The first protonation constant was determined from fluorescence data as log K(3)=3.17+/-0.05 at an ionic strength of 0.1 M and at 294 K exploiting the Stern-Volmer mechanism. The agreement of the protonation constant with literature data (log K(3)=3.10+/-0.20, I=0.1 M, T=298 K [Bull. Soc. Jpn. 44 (1971) 3459]) demonstrates the excellent performance of our system. Furthermore, we determined the complex formation constant log K(1)=-3.11+/-0.16 by measuring the fluorescence properties of the ligand for the 1:1 uranyldihydroxobenzoate complex in the pH range from 3.0 to 4.5 at ionic strength of 0.1 M and at 294 K. We also determined the complex formation constant via the fluorescence emission of the metal ion uranium(VI). The fluorescence of the uranyl ion is influenced by dynamic quenching of the non-dissociated ligand and by static quenching due to the complex formation. After correction of these effects using the determined fluorescence lifetime, the complex formation constant was calculated to be log K(1)=-3.99+/-0.44. A 1:1 metal:ligand stoichiometry was determined with both measurement methods. However, the difference of the obtained formation constants and the derived standard deviations indicate a superimposition of effects with the excited-state reactions of the ligand.
Recently, beta-lactam agents containing iron-chelating moieties, such as E0702, which contains catechol, and pirazmonam and U-78,608, which contain 3-hydroxypyridone, have been developed. By determining the susceptibility to these agents of Escherichia coli mutants lacking various iron-repressible outer membrane proteins, we showed that two of these proteins with hitherto unknown functions, Fiu and Cir, were apparently involved in the transport of monomeric catechol and its analogs. These results confirm the conclusion of Curtis and co-workers, which was obtained by using a different set of catechol-containing antibiotics (N. A. C. Curtis, R. L. Eisenstadt, S. J. East, R. J. Cornford, L. A. Walker, and A. J. White, Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 32:1879-1886, 1988). E0702 was shown to enhance the uptake of radioactive ferric iron into wild-type cells but not into cir fiu double mutants. By combining the influx of E0702 with its hydrolysis by a periplasmic beta-lactamase, we showed that the wild-type cells transported unliganded E0702 at a rate comparable to or even higher than the rate of transport of the E0702-Fe3+ complex. We postulate that the main function of Cir and Fiu may be to recapture the hydrolytic products of enterobactin, such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine.
Abstract Equilibrium studies of beryllium with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and gallic acid in an aqueous solution at 310.15 K, an ionic strength of 0.15 mol·dm− 3 NaCl and pH 2.5 to 11.0 were investigated by the pH-potentiometric method. Stability constants of the complexes were determined by HyperQuad2008 and presented as logβ. Contributing binding sites of these ligands were evaluated by comparing its logβ with some structurally related ligands such as catechol and salicylic acid. Spectrophotometric measurements were done to confirm the formation of the complex species. Geometry optimization and frequency analysis of the complexes were performed by using Gaussian09W program to verify the contributing binding sites. The results indicate that the ability of ligands in preventing the hydrolysis of Be2 + follows the order: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid > 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid > gallic acid.
1. Micrococcus denitrificans excretes three catechol-containing compounds, which can bind iron, when grown aerobically and anaerobically in media deficient in iron, and anaerobically in medium with a high concentration of Ca2+. 2. One of these compounds was identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (compound I), and the other two were tentatively identified as N1N8-bis-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)spermidine (compound II) and 2-hydroxybenzoyl-N-L-threonyl-N4[N1N8-bis-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)]spermidine (compound III). 3. The equimolar ferric complex of compound III was prepared; compound III also forms complexes with Al3+, Cr3+ and Co2+ ions. 4. Cell-free extracts from iron-deficient organisms catalyse the formation of compound II from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and spermidine, and of compound III from compound II, L-threonine and 2-hydroxybenzoic acid; both reactions require ATP and dithiothreitol, and Mg2+ stimulates activity. The enzyme system catalysing the formation of compound II has optimum activity at pH 8.8 Fe2+ (35muM), Fe3+ (35muM) and Al3+ (65muM) inhibit the reaction by 50 percent. The enzyme system forming compound III has optimum activity at pH 8.6. Fe2+ (110 muM), Fe3+ (110 muM) and Al3+ (135 muM) inhibit the reaction by 50 percent. 5. At least two proteins are required for the formation of compound II, and another two proteins for its conversion into compound III. 6. The changes in the activities of these two systems were followed after cultures became deficient in iron. 7. Ferrous 1,10-phenanthroline is formed when a cell-free extract from iron-deficient cells is incubated with the ferric complex of compound III, succinate, NADH and 1,10-phenanthroline under N2.
OBJECTIVES ::: We used acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) as a probing agent to quantify hydroxyl radical ((*)OH) in Controls and patients with coronary artery disease and to prospectively investigate (*)OH production in patients with myocardial infarction (MI) complicated by heart failure (HF). ::: ::: ::: BACKGROUND ::: Oxidative stress status (OSS) is a mechanism for transition to HF in experimental heart injury models, but evidence for its causal role in humans is still limited. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Thirty healthy subjects (Controls), 12 patients with stable angina (Group 1), and 74 patients with ST-segment elevation MI (Group 2) were enrolled. A dose of 250 mg Flectadol was given intravenously before each blood collection to determine the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid/salicylic acid (DHBA/SA) ratio. We also quantified vitamin E and coenzyme Q(10) to monitor antioxidant reserve, as well as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, TNF-soluble receptors, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1ra to assess inflammatory status. All measurements were repeated at month 6 in Group 2. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: There were no differences between Controls and Group 1. Group 2 showed increased (*)OH production, peaking at 24 h, whereas vitamin E and coenzyme Q(10) progressively declined. Group 2 patients developing HF during hospitalization (Group 2Bi) presented with an increase of both (*)OH production at discharge and inflammatory status, as compared with patients without HF (Group 2Ai), persisting at month 6 in post-MI patients with HF (Group 2Bii). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: We found a distinct pattern of (*)OH generation in post-MI patients who show progression to HF. The interplay between OSS and inflammatory status should be targeted as a possible mechanism of progression to post-MI left ventricular dysfunction.
In dopaminergic neurons, free radicals are likely produced via dopamine metabolism by monoamine oxidase or via its auto-oxidation, a process facilitated by transition metals. In this study we examined the effect and possible mechanisms of apomorphine to reduce iron- and dopamine-induced 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) formation by microdialysis. We have shown that (1) FeSO(4).7H(2)O reduced both the release of dopamine and the output of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC); (2) apomorphine may reduce FeSO(4).7H(2)O-induced increases of 2,3-DHBA formation; (3) apomorphine has substantially reduced DOPAC output in early phase and blocked dopamine-induced increase of 2,3-DHBA levels. It is concluded that apomorphine is a potent hydroxyl radical scavenger in vivo, especially for the dopamine formation.
Abstract -The equilibrium constants and kinetics for the complexing of aqueous iron(m) by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and 1,2-dihydroxy-3~-benzenedisulfo~te (Tiron) have been studied with iron(IIl) in excess over ligand. Formation constant comparisons indicate that DHB complexes in a mode analogous to salicylate. The reaction rate has the hydrogen ion dependence typical for iron(m) complexation, but there is an unusual contribution from a term second order in irm(III). The DHB-iron(III) complex shows a subsequent redox reaction with the rate first order in iron(IU) and inverse second order in iron(II). The mechanistic implications for the redox mechanism are described.
Neuroprotection by citicoline (CDP-choline) in transient cerebral ischemia has been demonstrated previously. Citicoline has undergone several Phase III clinical trials for stroke, and is being evaluated for treatment of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Phospholipid degradation and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are major factors causing neuronal injury in CNS trauma and neurodegenerative diseases. Oxidative metabolism of arachidonic acid (released by the action of phospholipases) contributes to ROS generation. We examined the effect of citicoline on phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) activity in relation to the attenuation of hydroxyl radical (OH.) generation after transient forebrain ischemia of gerbil. PLA(2) activity (requires mM Ca(2+)) increased significantly (P < 0.05) in both membrane (50.2 +/- 2.2 pmol/min/mg protein compared to sham 35.9 +/- 3.2) and mitochondrial fractions (77.0 +/- 1.2 pmol/min/mg protein compared to sham 33.9 +/- 1.2) after cerebral ischemia and 2 hr reperfusion in gerbil, which was significantly attenuated (P < 0.01) by citicoline (membrane, 39.9. +/- 2.2 and mitochondria, 41.9 +/- 3.2 pmol/min/mg protein). In vitro, citicoline and its components cytidine and choline had no effect on PLA(2) activity, and thus citicoline as such is not a PLA(2) inhibitor. Ischemia/reperfusion resulted in significant OH. generation (P < 0.01) and citicoline significantly (P < 0.01) attenuated their formation (expressed as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid/salicylate ratio; ischemia/24 hr reperfusion, 6.30 +/- 0.23; sham, 2.56 +/- 0.27; ischemia/24 hr reperfusion + citicoline, 4.85 +/- 0.35). These results suggest that citicoline affects PLA(2) stimulation and decreases OH. generation after transient cerebral ischemia.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives, a preparation method thereof, and a skin-whitening cosmetic composition containing the same compounds are provided to inhibit activity of tyrosinase and melanin formation while cytotoxicity of the compounds is very low, so that the compounds are useful for improvement of pigmentation in the skin. The method for preparing the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives represented by the formula(1) comprises the steps of: (A) reacting 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with acetic acid anhydride in the presence of base to prepare a 2,3-diacetyloxybenzoic acid compound represented by the formula(2); (B) preparing an amide compound represented by the formula(3) from the 2,3-diacetyloxybenzoic acid compound by using ethylchloroformate and amine having a lipophilic group; and (C) hydrolyzing an acetyl group of the amide compound represented by formula (3) to prepare 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid represented by the formula (1), wherein R is 4-ethoxyphenyl, 2-cyclohexenylethyl, cycloheptyl, cyclohexyl, tert-octyl, 4-isopropylphenyl, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]dioxin-7-yl, benzo[1,3]-dioxol-6-yl or adamantyl-1-yl; and the amine having the lipophilic group is an amine selected from 4-ethoxyphenylamine, 2-cyclohexenylethylamine, cycloheptylamine, cyclohexylamine, tert-octylamine, 4-isopropylphenylamine, 2,3-dihydrobenzo[1,4]dioxin-7-amine, benzo[1,3]-dioxol-6-amine or adamantyl-1-amine. The skin-whitening cosmetic composition contains 0.01-20 wt.% of the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives represented by the formula(1).
Summary. To determine if greater amounts of hydroxyl radical (•OH) are formed by dopamine (DA) denervation and treatment with L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the neostriatum was DA denervated (99% reduction in DA content) by 6-hydroxydopamine treatment (134 μg icv, desipramine pretreatment) of neonatal rats. At 10 weeks the peripherally restricted dopa decarboxylase inhibitor carbidopa (12.5 mg/kg i.p.) was administered 30 min before vehicle, L-DOPA (60 mg/kg i.p.), or the known generator of reactive oxygen species, 6-hydroxydopa (6-OHDOPA) (60 mg/kg i.p.); and this was followed 30 min later (and 15 min before termination) by the spin trap, salicylic acid (8 μmoles icv). By means of a high performance liquid chromatographic method with electrochemical detection, we found a 4-fold increase in the non-enzymatically formed spin trap product, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), with neither L-DOPA nor 6-OHDOPA having an effect on 2,3-DHBA content of the neostriatum. Basal content of 2,5-DHBA, the enzymatically formed spin trap product, was 4-fold higher vs. 2,3-DHBA in the neostriatum of untreated rats, while L-DOPA and 6-OHDOPA each reduced formation of 2,5-DHBA. We conclude that DA innervation normally suppresses •OH formation, and that the antiparkinsonian drug L-DOPA has no effect (2,3-DHBA) or slightly reduces (2,5-DHBA) •OH formation in the neostriatum, probably by virtue of its bathing the system of newly formed •OH.
Abstract The enzymatic synthesis of 2,3-dihydroxy- N -benzoyl- L -serine has been resolved into three protein components. Two of these proteins are responsible for the conversion of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, L -serine and ATP to cyclo-tris (2,3-dihydroxy- N -benzoyl- L -seryl) which is the cyclic trimer of 2,3-dihydroxy- N -benzoyl- L -serine. The third protein hydrolyzes this cyclic trimer through intermediate compounds to 2,3-dihydroxy- N -benzoyl- L -serine.
The formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) from salicylate was measured in the lungs and plasma to assay for the .OH in juvenile (2 mo), adult (9 mo), and senescent (24 mo) Fischer 344 male rats exposed to clean air, 1 part/million (ppm) ozone, or 2 ppm ozone for 2 h. Similar rates of distribution of salicylic acid in plasma and to the lungs were observed among air control animals of all age groups. Levels of 2,3-DHBA were about twice as high in the lungs of air control senescent rats compared with juvenile and adult rats (P < 0.05). Exposure to ozone resulted in 1.5- to 2-fold elevation of 2,3-DHBA in lungs and plasma of all age groups (P < 0.05), whereas levels of 2,5-DHBA were not changed significantly. There was no effect of age on the magnitude of 2,3-DHBA increase in the lungs or plasma after ozone exposure. The postulated source of.OH is chemical reduction of H202, which could be generated from increased age-dependent endogenous oxidant production or the age-independent reaction of ozone or macrophage-derived oxidants with the surfactant lining.
Analysis of a clinical isolate of Acinetobacter baumannii showed that this bacterium was able to grow under iron-limiting conditions, using chemically defined growth media containing different iron chelators such as human transferrin, ethylenediaminedi-(o-hydroxyphenyl)acetic acid, nitrilotriacetic acid, and 2,2'-bipyridyl. This iron uptake-proficient phenotype was due to the synthesis and secretion of a catechol-type siderophore compound. Utilization bioassays using the Salmonella typhimurium iron uptake mutants enb-1 and enb-7 proved that this siderophore is different from enterobactin. This catechol siderophore was partially purified from culture supernatants by adsorption chromatography using an XAD-7 resin. The purified component exhibited a chromatographic behavior and a UV-visible light absorption spectrum different from those of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and other bacterial catechol siderophores. Furthermore, the siderophore activity of this extracellular catechol was confirmed by its ability to stimulate energy-dependent uptake of 55Fe(III) as well as to promote the growth of A. baumannii bacterial cells under iron-deficient conditions imposed by 60 microM human transferrin. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis showed the presence of iron-regulated proteins in both inner and outer membranes of this clinical isolate of A. baumannii. Some of these membrane proteins may be involved in the recognition and internalization of the iron-siderophore complexes.
Abstract We examined whether ouabain-induced Ca2+ overload increases hydroxyl radical (⋅OH) generation by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) in rat striatum. These elevations seem to induce lipid peroxidation of striatum of rats, as detected by increases in non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) levels. Ouabain enhanced MPP+-induced ⋅OH formation trapped as DHBA. Moreover, when iron (II) was administered to MPP+ then ouabain (100 μM)-pretreated animals, a marked elevation in the level of DHBA was observed, as compared with the iron (II)-only-treated animals. These results suggests that Ca2+ overload might enhance ⋅OH generation by MPP+ in rat striatum.
Thirty-six endophytic bacteria were isolated from plants grown in oil-contaminated soils. Endophytic bacterial strain 7J2 was identified as having the potential to remove phenanthrene, promote plant growth and colonize wheat tissue interiors. The characteristics ofstrain 7J2 were investigated and showed that the degradation rate of phenanthrene(30 mg·L-1)by the strain was 99.81% at 28℃ on the rotary shaker at 150 r·min-1 for 6 days. The strain could produce IAA (indole-3-acetic acid) ((3.4±0.2) mg·L-1) and a siderophore (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4.3±1.6 mg·L-1). The soluble phosphate in the cultures inoculated with the live cells was increased by 32.5% compared to the dead cells control. The strain was also resistant to heavy metals such as Pb2+、Cr2+、Cu2+、Ni2+、Zn2+ and Cd2+.The strain was identified as Enterobacter sp.7J2 based on 16SrDNA sequence analysis.
The present report describes a method suitable for the indirect assay of hydroxyl radical (OH.), which is likely to be produced during reperfusion of ischemic myocardium. Isolated rat heart perfused by the Langendorff technique was subjected to 30 min of ischemia, followed by 30 min of reperfusion. Salicylic acid (2 mM) was added to the perfusion circuit to trap any OH. radical generated during the experiment. 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids (hydroxylated products of salicylic acid) were identified by authentic standards as well as by pure OH.-generating system using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. In addition to serving as a chemical trap for the detection of OH., salicylate attenuated myocardial reperfusion injury as evidenced by reduced formation of creatine kinase, decreased lipid peroxidation, and improved myocardial contractile functions during reperfusion. These results thus provide direct evidence for the presence of OH. in heart and link it to the myocardial reperfusion injury.
Abstract The chelating agent pyridoxal isonicotinoyl hydrazone (PIH) has recently been shown to mobilize 59 Fe from reticulocytes loaded with non-heme 59 Fe. In this study, various chelating agents were tested for their ability to effect the mobilization of iron from reticulocytes by PIH. They fall into several groups. The largest group includes chelators such as citrate, ethylenediaminetetracetic acid and desferrioxamine, which fail to affect PIH-induced iron mobilization and do not mobilize iron per se. Either these chelators do not enter reticulocytes or they do not take up iron from PIH-Fe complexes. The second group includes chelators such as 2,2′-bipyridine, 1,10-phenanthroline, bathophenanthroline sulfonate and N , N ′-ethylenebis( o -hydroxyphenylglycine) which inhibit PIH-induced iron mobilization from reticulocytes and, when added together with PIH, induce radioiron accumulation in an alcohol-soluble fraction of reticulocytes. It appears that these chelators enter the cell and compete with PIH for 59 Fe(II), but having bound iron are unable to cross the cell membrane. Spectral analysis suggests that Fe(II) chelators such as 2,2′-bipyridine and 1,10-phenanthroline remove iron from Fe(II)PIH but are not able to do so from Fe(III)PIH. Then there are compounds such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol which potentiate PIH-induced iron mobilization although they are unable to mobilize iron from reticulocytes by themselves. Lastly, there is a group of miscellaneous compounds which include chelators that either potentiate the iron-mobilizing effect of PIH as well as mobilizing iron from reticulocytes by themselves (tropolone), or that reduce PIH-induced iron mobilization while themselves having an iron-mobilizing effect ( N , N ′-bis(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-1,6-diaminohexane). In further experiments, heme was found to stimulate globin synthesis in reticulocytes, the heme synthesis of which was inhibited by PIH, suggesting that PIH is probably not toxic to the cells.
Abstract The present study indicates that free radicals have been implicated in pentylenetetrazol (PTZ)-induced seizure and kindling. In our experiments we used a method in which free hydroxyl radicals (⋅OH) are trapped by systemically applied salicylate in vivo, resulting in the stable and quantifiable products, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA. We investigated the formation of both 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA in the whole brain (without cerebellum) of rats treated with an acute seizure-inducing dose of 48 mg/kg PTZ and in PTZ-kindled animals which were injected with the kindling dose of 37.5 mg/kg PTZ at different times after the last PTZ injection. An increase of ⋅OH was observed in kindled rats compared with acutely convulsing animals when the PTZ application was performed 1 min after the salicylate treatment. The amount of DHBAs increased significantly in both convulsed groups 30 min after the application of PTZ compared with animals treated with NaCl instead of PTZ. Sixty minutes after PTZ the DHBA levels normalized to NaCl control values.
Abstract Carbon monoxide poisoning produces both immediate and delayed neuronal injury in selective regions of the brain that is not readily explained on the basis of tissue hypoxia. One possibility is that cellular injury during and after CO poisoning is related to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by the brain. In this study, we hypothesized that the extent of ROS generation in the brain would be greater after CO than after hypoxic hypoxia due to intracellular uptake of CO. We assessed hydroxyl radical (OH·) production by comparing the nonenzymatic hydroxylation of salicylic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) in the hippocampus of the rat by microdialysis during either CO hypoxia or an exposure to hypoxic hypoxia that produced similar PO2 and cerebral blood flow (CBF) values in the region of microdialysis. We found neither control animals nor animals exposed to 30 min of hypoxic hypoxia at a mean tissue PO2 of 15 mmHg demonstrated significant increases in 2,3-DHBA production in the hippocampus over the 2-h the exposure. In contrast, CO exposed rats which also developed brain PO2 values in the range of 15 mmHg showed highly significant increases in 2,3-DHBA production. We conclude that cerebral oxidative stress in the hippocampus of the rat during CO hypoxia in vivo is not a direct effect of decreased tissue oxygen concentration. Copyright © 1997 Elsevier Science Inc.
Some other chelators have been tested in man but with little success. One of these, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, was initially found to be effective but was later abandoned. Another chelator, rhodotorulic acid,7 was found to be painful when injected parenterally, and another, cholyihydroxamic acid,8 causes transient diarrhoea. Finally, subcutaneous diethylenetriaminepenta-acetic acid increases iron excretion but also removes other trace metals such as zinc. 9 No follow up studies have been reported for these drugs, but several other experimental chelators that increase iron excretion in animals also have potential for clinical use. These include 2,4-dihydroxypyridine-N-oxide,"°the pyridoxal isonicotinoylhydrazones," spermidine catecholates," deferrithiocins," and phenolic ethylenediamines."4
We examined whether central or peripheral administration of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) might change levels of nitric oxide (NO) and hydroxyl radical (OH) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Extracellular levels of NO metabolites (NOx−) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), as a marker of OH production, were determined with an in vivo microdialysis technique in conscious rats. In the mPFC, central administration of IL-1β into the mPFC resulted in dose-dependent increases in levels of both NOx− and 2,3-DHBA. In contrast, peripheral administration of IL-1β significantly increased NOx− levels but not 2,3-DHBA levels. Perfusion of Mn(III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin chloride, a superoxide (O2−) dismutase mimic, into the mPFC reduced the increases in levels of 2,3-DHBA induced by centrally administered IL-1β, but enhanced the increases in levels of NOx− induced by centrally administered IL-1β. The present results show a different response in free radical productions in the mPFC between central and peripheral administration of IL-1β. This finding should be useful for our understanding of the response of NO and free radicals such as OH and O2− in the mPFC after central and peripheral administration of IL-1β.
The e.s.r. and 1H electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) spectra of oxovanadium(IV) complexes formed in aqueous solution by salicylic and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids have been recorded and compared to those of catecholic ligands previously described. According to both spectroscopies, salicylic acid co-ordinates to the metal ion through the adjacent carboxyl and phenolate donors, while 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid behaves as either a catecholic or a salicylic ligand. The 1H ENDOR spectra allowed assignment of the resonances due to the ring protons which are adjacent to metal-bound carboxylate groups and those having contribution from more distant protons. Thus, while the e.s.r. spectra distinguish only the chromophores involved in metal co-ordination, the ENDOR features are distinctive of both the metal surrounding and the ligand structure. The presence of outer-sphere water molecules which, very likely, are hydrogen-bonded to the ligand has also been detected.
We have cloned two metal-regulated genes (mrgA and mrgC) from Bacillus subtilis by using transposon Tn917-lacZ. Both were isolated as iron-repressible gene fusions, but the metal specificity and sensitivity of gene repression are distinct. Transcription of mrgA-lacZ is induced at the end of logarithmic-phase growth in minimal medium, and this induction is prevented by excess manganese, iron, cobalt, or copper. Limitation for metal ions is sufficient for mrgA-lacZ induction, since resuspension in medium lacking both manganese and iron rapidly induces transcription. Transcription of mrgC-lacZ is also induced by iron deprivation but is not repressed by added manganese or other metal ions. Expression of mrgC-lacZ and a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid-based siderophore is repressed in parallel by iron, and in both cases, only iron effects repression. We have cloned and sequenced the promoter and regulatory regions of both mrgA and mrgC. Both genes are preceded by a predicted sigma A-dependent promoter element with overlapping sequences similar to the iron box consensus element for recognition by the Escherichia coli ferric uptake regulator protein (Fur). Mutation of the putative iron box for gene mrgC leads to partial derepression in iron-replete medium.
Abstract Hydroxyl free radicals react with salicylate to form 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA). Utilizing the technique of high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (LCED), it is possible to detect DHBAs at the level of femtomoles. Since salicylate is relatively non-toxic, we have administered it as a trapping agent in a first attempt to examine the use of the LCED method as a sensitive measure of in vivo OH production. Utilizing adriamycin administration as a model to induce oxygen free radical tissue damage, we found that the level of DHBAs present in drug treated rats versus controls was increased 100-fold in heart and muscle, 30-fold in lung, and 3- and 4-fold in brain and blood, respectively. These first observations support the theory that adriamycin induced OH in tissue and indicates that the LCED method may prove to be useful to measure oxygen free radical production in vivo.
Multidrug resistance capacity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis demands urgent need for developing new antitubercular drugs. The present work is on M. tuberculosis-MbtA, an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of siderophores, having a critical role in bacterial growth and virulence. The molecular models of both holo and apo forms of M. tuberculosis-MbtA have been constructed and validated. A docking study with a series of 42 5'-O-[N-(salicyl) sulfamoyl] adenosine derivatives, using GOLD software, revealed significant correlation (R(2) = 0.8611) between Goldscore and the reported binding affinity data. Further, binding energies of the docked poses were calculated and compared with the observed binding affinities (R(2) = 0.901). All-atom molecular dynamics simulation was performed for apo form, holo form without ligand and holo form with ligands. The holo form without ligand on molecular dynamics simulation for 20 ns converged to the apo form and the apo form upon induced fit docking of the natural substrate, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid-adenylate, yielded the holo structure. The molecular dynamics simulation of the holo form with ligands across the time period of 20 ns provided with the insights into ligand-receptor interactions for inhibition of the enzyme. A thorough study involving interaction energy calculation between the ligands and the active site residues of MbtA model identified the key residues implicated in ligand binding. The holo model was capable to differentiate active compounds from decoys. In the absence of experimental structure of MbtA, the homology models together with the insights gained from this study will promote the rational design of potent and selective MbtA inhibitors as antitubercular therapeutics. An animated interactive 3D complement (I3DC) is available in Proteopedia at http://proteopedia.org/w/Journal:JBSD:33.
The interactions of aluminium(III) ion with the triprotic catechol derivatives (H3L), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (3,4-DHPA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), and 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid (3,4-DHHCA) were investigated in aqueous solution at 25.0 degrees C. The Calvin-Bjerrum titration method was adopted for the determination of formation constants of proton-ligand and aluminium(III)-ligand complexes. Potentiometric and spectroscopic results indicated that these catechol derivatives exhibit a true bidentate character. The chelation occurs via their catecholate sites, with the exception of 2,3-DHBA. In the case of 2,3-DHBA complexes, the dominant species are either the salicylate type (COO-, O-) or catecholate type (O-, O-) complex. The protonation constants of ligands and their formation constants of Al(III) complexes were also correlated. The order of decreasing stabilities of complexes is: 3,4-DHPA>3,4-DHBA>3,4-DHHCA>2,3-DHBA.
Abstract A family of aromatic acids containing different binding sites, including 5-chloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, salicylic acid, 3-nitrophthalic acid, 4,5-dichlorophthalic acid, 6-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid and tetrafluorophthalic acid, were allowed to react with 2,3-dimethylpyrazine to assemble single molecule into diverse structures. Seven cocrystals were successfully synthesized and characterized by single crystal X-ray diffraction. Crystal structure analysis shows that O H⋯N H-bonds are involved in the formation of all 1D chains of the seven cocrystals. Moreover, C H⋯O H-bonds play a crucial role in the 3D supramolecular network. In the crystal structures of cocrystals 1, 2 and 4, noncovalent interaction π-π stacking can be considered as a significant influencing factor. In 2, the self-assembly of 3D tessellate-type supramolecular architecture in solution is driven mainly by π-π interactions, to a lesser extent, and by weak hydrogen bond. In 3, two carboxylic acid molecules link each other to form dimers [synthon V R22 (12)] but in 7 carboxylic acid molecules and water molecules are connected to afford tetramer [synthon XVII R44 (12)], further generating zig-zag chains via O H⋯N intermolecular H-bonds. What is worth mentioning, acid and alkali molecules constitute tape chains through the way of forming synthons VII R22 (14) and VIII R66 (30), XI R44 (24) and XII R22 (10) in crystals 4 and 5, respectively. The strong orthogonally directed C H···π interactions lie in the 2D architecture of 6. Meanwhile, solvent molecules make a significant part in preparation of supramolecular structures in 6 and 7. Results show that solvent molecules serve as H-bond donors/acceptors to complete the various motif.
1. ::: ::: FourPseudomonas strains, anAchromobacter sp., threeNocardia strains,Mycobacterium coeliacum and aBacillus sp., grown on either phenol or benzoic acid as sole carbon source, were tested for co-oxidation of monochlorophenols and monochlorobenzoates respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: ThePseudomonas spp.,Nocardia spp.,M. coeliacum and theBacillus sp. showed O2-uptakes in the presence ofo-, m- orp-chlorophenol and oxidised them to either 3- or 4-chlorocatechol. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: Benzoate-grown cells of the threeNocardia spp. and three of the pseudomonads absorbed O2 only in the presence ofm-chlorobenzoate, 4-chlorocatechol being identified as the oxidation product in two cases. One pseudomonad gave some O2-uptake also in presence ofp-chlorobenzoate. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 4. ::: ::: Benzoate-grownBacillus cells gave O2-uptakes with eitherm- orp-chlorobenzoate and the former was oxidised to 5-chloro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid via 5-chlorosalicylic acid, thus representing a novel metabolic pathway.
Current research suggests that phenolics from wine may play a positive role against oxidation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), which is a key step in the development of atherosclerosis. Considering the effects of different wine-making techniques on phenols and the wine consumption preference influencing the benefical effects of the product, organically and non-organically produced wines were obtained from the grapes of Vitis vinifera origin var: Carignan, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Grenache, Columbard and Semillon. Levels of total phenols [mg/l gallic acid equivalents (GAE)], antioxidant activity (%) and inhibition of LDL oxidation [%, inhibition of diene and malondialdehyde (MDA) formation] were determined. Some phenolic acids (gallic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, syringic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, ferulic acid, p-coumaric acid and vanillic acid) were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography equipped with an electrochemical detection carried at +0.65 V (versus Ag/AgCl, 0.5 microA full scale). The highest concentrations of gallic, syringic and ferulic acids were found in organic Cabernet Sauvignon; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in organic Carignan and p-coumaric and vanillic acids in non-organic Merlot wine. High levels of antioxidant activity (AOA), inhibition of LDL oxidation and total phenol levels were found in non-organic Merlot (101.950% AOA; 88.570% LDL-diene; 41.000% LDL-MDA; 4700.000 mg/l GAE total phenol) and non-organic Cabernet Sauvignon (92.420% AOA; 91.430% LDL-diene; 67.000% LDL-MDA; 3500.000 mg/l GAE total phenol) grape varieties. Concentrations of some individual phenolic constituents (ferulic, p-coumaric, vanillic) are correlated with high antioxidant activity and inhibition of LDL oxidation. The best r value for all examined characteristics was determined for gallic acid, followed by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic, syringic, ferulic and p-coumaric acids. Negative correlation of vanillic with MDA and p-hydroxybenzoic acid with LDL were confirmed by principal component analysis (PCA) analyses. Red wines display a higher antioxidant activity (81.110% AOA) than white ones (19.512% AOA). The average level of LDL inhibition capacity in red wine was determined as 87.072% and for the white as 54.867%.
Abstract Elevated generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) has been demonstrated during ischemia and reperfusion. Dopamine (DA) autooxidation may contribute to increased ROS generation. The novel neuroprotective agent AM-36 has antioxidant and Na+ channel blocking activity and reduces neuronal damage in both cortex and striatum after middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Here we sought in vivo evidence of the ability of AM-36 to inhibit intrastriatal ROS generation and DA release after ischemia. Salicylate hydroxylation coupled with in vivo microdialysis in the striatum of conscious Long Evans rats was performed during MCA occlusion by perivascular microinjection of endothelin-1 (ET-1). AM-36 (6 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally 30 min after MCA occlusion. Dialysates were analysed using high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection for the salicylate hydroxylation product, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3 DHBA) and for DA and metabolites. MCA occlusion resulted in a marked increase in 2,3 DHBA and a secondary increase in all analytes, 180–300 min later. Increased DA release coincided with 2,3 DHBA formation. AM-36 significantly reduced ischemia induced increases in 2,3 DHBA and DA, and infarct volume in the striatum. Significant improvements in a battery of behavioural tests was also found in AM-36 treated rats. This study has demonstrated profound inhibition of ROS generation by a novel compound with antioxidant activity, administered post-ischemia in conscious rats.
Strains and Plasmids-E. coli strain KA13 (13,29) was used for the construction of the aroH expression plasmids as well as for BsCM protein production. The in vivo complementation system KA12/pKIMP-UAUC was described previously (25). Both KA13 and KA12 have chromosomal deletions of the endogenous E. coli chorismate mutase genes. (6 mg/ml)/KH 2 PO 4 (3 mg/ml)/NH 4 Cl (1 mg/ml)/NaCl (0.5 mg/ml), pH 7.0; (30)] supplemented with 0.2% (w/v) D-(+)-Glc/1 mM MgSO 4 /0.1 mM CaCl 2 /thiamine-HCl (5 µg/ml)/4-hydroxybenzoic acid (5 µg/ml)/4-aminobenzoic acid (5 µg/ml)/2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1.6 µg/ml)/L-Trp (20 µg/ml)/sodium ampicillin (100 µg/ml)/chloramphenicol (20 µg/ml) and 15 g agar per liter. Media and assay conditions corresponded to those used previously (25). 
Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL, now known as Siderocalin) was first purified by two independent groups [1, 2] from neutrophil granules. Like other members of the lipocalin family, NGAL-Siderocalin contains a calyx composed of eight anti-parallel -sheets. However, the relationship of its structure to its proposed function in tissue damage, cell differentiation, or inflammation has been largely unknown, and major advances have resulted from the identification of its ligands which bind to the calyx. For example, the epochal article [3] demonstrating the interaction between NGAL-Siderocalin and bacterial siderophores Enterochelin (Ent) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) resulted in a surge of research on the bacteriostatic effects of NGAL-Siderocalin in Gram-Negative infections [3] [4] [5] [6] .
Brucella abortus grown in low-iron medium or in the presence of iron chelators [ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid) and 2,2-dipyridyl] showed reduced cell yields and released a material positive in chemical and biological assays for catechols. This material was purified from culture fluids of B. abortus 2308 by chromatography on agarose-iminodiacetic acid-Fe3+ and identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) by thin-layer chromatography, paper electrophoresis, and UV-visible nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectroscopy. No other major catechols were observed at different stages of growth, and 2,3-DHBA was also produced upon iron limitation by representative strains of B. abortus biotypes 1, 5, 6, and 9. Both synthetic 2,3-DHBA and the natural catechol relieved the growth inhibition of B. abortus 2308 by ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid), and 2,3-DHBA promoted 55Fe uptake by B. abortus 2308 by an energy-dependent mechanism. Two other monocatechols tested, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-Ser and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-Gly, also promoted 55Fe uptake. More complex catechol siderophores (agrobactin and enterobactin), hydroxamate siderophores (aerobactin, ferrichrome, and deferriferrioxamine mesylate [Desferal]), and an EDTA-related siderophore (rhizobactin) failed to mediate 55Fe uptake. B. abortus cells grown in low-iron medium or in medium with iron had similar rates of iron uptake when supplied with 55Fe-2,3-DHBA, and the release of 2,3-DHBA under iron starvation was not associated with the expression of new outer membrane proteins. These results suggest an uptake system in which only the synthesis of the siderophore is regulated by the iron available for growth. Images
Abstract A siderophore (microbial iron transport compound) was isolated from low iron cultures of Agrobacterium tumefaciens B6. The substance was characterized as a threonyl peptide of spermidine acylated with 3 residues of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the carbonyl group of 1 residue of the latter participating in an oxazoline ring with the beta-hydroxyl of the threonine moiety. The compound, N-[3-(2,3-dihydroxybenzamido)propyl]-N-[4-(2,3-dihydroxybenzamido)butyl]-2-(2,3-dihydroxyphenyl)-trans-5-methyl-oxazoline-4-carboxamide, was given the trivial name agrobactin. Exposure to acid opened the oxazoline ring to afford agrobactin A. Ferric agrobactin A and agrobactin A itself, but not agrobactin or its ferric complex, had some capacity to feed iron to enterobactin-deficient strains of Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium. Agrobactin was produced by A. tumefaciens in response to iron deficiency and was able to reverse the iron starvation in this organism precipitated by the presence of a ferric complexing agent not utilized by the cells.
A specific stimulation of tubulin tyrosinolation in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) is induced by the synthetic peptide chemoattractant, N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMet-Leu-Phe), and this stimulation of tyrosinolation in PMN is completely inhibited in the presence of various reducing agents. Further studies to characterize the mechanism of stimulation of tyrosinolation in PMN have revealed that conditions that inhibited the respiratory burst in stimulated PMN, e.g., an anaerobic atmosphere, or addition of antioxidants such as cysteamine, azide, or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, also inhibited the peptide-induced stimulation of tyrosinolation in these cells. Moreover, the sulfhydryl reagent, N-ethylmaleimide, depressed tyrosinolation in resting PMN and completely inhibited the fMet-Leu-Phe-induced stimulation. In contrast, addition of diamide, which preferentially oxidizes cellular glutathione, significantly stimulated tyrosinolation both in resting and fMet-Leu-Phe-stimulated PMN. Furthermore, resting levels of tyrosinolation in seven patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), whose oxidative metabolism is severely depressed, were 35-45% lower (P less than 0.01). Most strikingly, PMN from CGD patients failed to respond to fMet-Leu-Phe or the Ca2+-ionophore A23187, which also induced stimulation of tyrosinolation in normal resting PMN. Methylene blue normalized the depressed tyrosinolation in resting CGD PMN, although it did not increase tyrosinolation in stimulated PMN. These results are consistent with the idea that the characteristic activation of the oxidative metabolism and the associated changes in the redox state in stimulated PMN are coupled to the induction of stimulation of tubulin tyrosinolation in these cells.
3-Deoxy-arabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate synthase, prephenate dehydratase, tryptophan synthase, and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine synthase enzyme activities are derepressed in wild-type Escherichia coli K-12 cells grown on Fe3+-deficient medium. This derepression is reversed when FeSO4 is added to the growth medium. Addition of shikimic acid to the Fe3+-deficient growth medium caused repression of the first three enzyme activities but not of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine synthase activity. Addition of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to the Fe3+-deficient growth medium has no effect on any of the above-mentioned enzyme activities. The Fe3+ deficiency-mediated derepression of 3-deoxyarabino-heptulosonic acid 7-phosphate synthase activity is due to an elevation of the tyrosine-sensitive isoenzyme; the phenylalanine-sensitive isoenzyme is not derepressed under these conditions.
In vivo metabolism of salicylic acid produces two main hydroxylated derivatives (2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid). The former can be produced by enzymatic pathways through the cytochrome P-450 system, while the latter is reported to be solely formed by direct hydroxyl radical attack. Therefore, measurement of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate, following oral administration of salicylate in its acetylated form (aspirin), has been proposed for assessment of oxidative stress. In this article we report plasma levels of 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoates following the administration of 1 g aspirin and plasma levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive material (TBARM) in well-controlled diabetic patients and in healthy subjects. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoate levels were significantly higher (23%) in diabetic patients than in controls (63.4 +/- 20.1 versus 49.0 +/- 6.8 nM; p < .05). On the other hand, TBARM values were not significantly different between groups. These results suggest that the method is useful to reveal in vivo oxidative stress independently from the peroxidation of lipids, and they support the hypothesis that oxygen radicals are involved in the pathogenesis of chronic complications of diabetes.
The involvement of isochorismate synthase (EC 5.4.99.6) in the biosynthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), was confirmed by the incorporation of [1- 1 3 C]pyruvate in 2,3-DHBA in a transgenic C. roseus cell line constitutively overexpressing the C. roseus plant ics-gene. The label was mainly in the carboxyl group and at C-3 and C-4, which is consistent with isochorismate as intermediate.
Aryl acids are most commonly found in iron-scavenging siderophores but are not limited to them. The nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) codes of aryl acids remain poorly elucidated relative to those of amino acids. Here, we defined more precisely the role of active-site residues in aryl acid adenylation domains (A-domains) by gradually grafting the NRPS codes used for salicylic acid (Sal) into an archetypal aryl acid A-domain, EntE [specific for the substrate 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB)]. Enzyme kinetics and modeling studies of these EntE variants demonstrated that the NRPS code residues at positions 236, 240, and 339 collectively regulate the substrate specificity toward DHB and Sal. Furthermore, the EntE variants exhibited the ability to activate the non-native aryl acids 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3-aminobenzoic acid, 3-fluorobenzoic acid, and 3-chlorobenzoic acid. These studies enhance our knowledge of the NRPS codes of aryl acids and could be exploited to reprogram aryl acid A-domains for non-nati...
Oxidative stress is involved in endothelial dysfunction, the key player in the development of vascular events. Flavanols, the major antioxidants in cocoa have been related to vascular protection and lower cardiovascular risk. However, the bioavailability of cocoa flavanols is very low and their bioactivity in vivo seems to be greatly mediated by the derived phenolic metabolites formed by intestinal microbiota. Hence, we investigated whether microbial-derived flavanol metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DHPAA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), 3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid (HPPA) and a mix of them could influence endothelial function and prevent oxidative stress in human endothelial cells (Ea.hy926). Our results revealed that a mixture of flavanol colonic metabolites significantly increased phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and nitric oxide (NO) production. By using specific inhibitors, we also established the participation of the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and protein kinase B (AKT) in eNOS activation. Likewise, flavanol metabolite mix protected against oxidative stress-induced endothelial dysfunction and cell death by preventing increased ROS generation and activation of signaling pathways related to oxidative stress. We concluded that flavanol colonic metabolites could exert beneficial effects in endothelial cells and prevent oxidative stress-induced vascular dysfunction.
MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity has been proposed to involve oxidative stress due to increased formation of hydroxyl radicals. Recently, MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxicity has been shown to be accompanied by a suppression of behavioral and neurochemical responses to a subsequent injection of MDMA. The intent of the present study was to examine whether suppression of the MDMA-induced formation of hydroxyl radicals by an antioxidant, ascorbic acid, attenuates both the MDMA-induced depletion of 5-HT and the functional consequences associated with this depletion. Treatment of rats with ascorbic acid suppressed the generation of hydroxyl radicals, as evidenced by the production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid from salicylic acid, in the striatum during the administration of a neurotoxic regimen of MDMA. Ascorbic acid also attenuated the MDMA-induced depletion of striatal 5-HT content. In rats treated with a neurotoxic regimen of MDMA, the ability of a subsequent injection of MDMA to increase the extracellular concentration of 5-HT in the striatum, elicit the 5-HT behavioral syndrome, and produce hyperthermia was markedly reduced compared to the responses in control rats. The concomitant administration of ascorbic acid with the neurotoxic regimen of MDMA prevented the diminished neurochemical and behavioral responses to a subsequent injection of MDMA. Finally, a neurotoxic regimen of MDMA produced significant reductions in the concentrations of vitamin E and ascorbic acid in the striatum and hippocampus. Thus, the MDMA-induced depletion of brain 5-HT and the functional consequences thereof appear to involve the induction of oxidative stress resulting from an increased generation of free radicals and diminished antioxidant capacity of the brain. Synapse 40:55–64, 2001. © 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Alkyl esters of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid are inhibitors of the sn-glycerol-3-phosphate oxidase system of Trypanosoma brucei brucei in vitro and have significant trypanocidal activity in vivo when combined with glycerol. While the parent acid has little inhibitory activity in vitro, the esters are highly active with activity increasing as the chain length of the esterifying alcohol increases. The n-dodecyl ester was more than 400 times as active as salicylhydroxamic acid and 15 times more active than the corresponding p-n-alkyloxybenzhydroxamic acid, one of the most active sn-glycerol-3-phosphate oxidase inhibitors previously reported. When combined with glycerol (to block an alternative pathway of glycolysis) and tested in vitro against intact parasites, this ester was 100 times more effective than salicylhydroxamic acid and 10 times more effective than p-n-dodecyloxybenzhydroxamic acid. It was also active against T. b. brucei in mice when combined with glycerol whereas the latter compound was not. Esters of 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid) were also highly active while those of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were much less inhibitory and those of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid were inactive. A related compound, 2',4',5'-trihydroxybutyrophenone, was also active as predicted by its structure but was too toxic to be of interest as a drug candidate.
BruceUa abortus grown in low-iron medium or in the presence of iron chelators [ethylenediamine-di(ohydroxyphenylacetic acid) and 2,2-dipyridyl] showed reduced cell yields and released a material positive in chemical and biological assays for catechols. This material was purified from culture fluids of B. abortus 2308 by chromatography on agarose-iminodiacetic acid-Fe3' and identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) by thin-layer chromatography, paper electrophoresis, and UV-visible nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectroscopy. No other major catechols were observed at different stages of growth, and 2,3-DHBA was also produced upon iron limitation by representative strains ofB. abortus biotypes 1, 5, 6, and 9. Both synthetic 2,3-DHBA and the natural catechol relieved the growth inhibition ofB. abortus 2308 by ethylenediamine-di(ohydroxyphenylacetic acid), and 2,3-DHBA promoted 5"Fe uptake by B. abortus 2308 by an energy-dependent mechanism. Two other monocatechols tested, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-Ser and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-Gly, also promoted 55Fe uptake. More complex catechol siderophores (agrobactin and enterobactin), hydroxamate siderophores (aerobactin, ferrichrome, and deferriferrioxamine mesylate [Desferal]), and an EDTA-related siderophore (rhizobactin) failed to mediate 55Fe uptake. B. abortus cells grown in low-iron medium or in medium with iron had similar rates of iron uptake when supplied with 55Fe-2,3-DHBA, and the release of 2,3-DHBA under iron starvation was not associated with the expression of new outer membrane proteins.
A B S T R A C T A specific stimulation of tubulin tyrosinolation in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) is induced by the synthetic peptide chemoattractant, N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMet-Leu-Phe), and this stimulation of tyrosinolation in PMN is completely inhibited in the presence of various reducing agents. Further studies to characterize the mechanism of stimulation of tyrosinolation in PMN have revealed that conditions that inhibited the respiratory burst in stimulated PMN, e.g., an anaerobic atmosphere, or addition of antioxidants such as cysteamine, azide, or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, also inhibited the peptide-induced stimulation of tyrosinolation in these cells. Moreover, the sulfhydryl reagent, N-ethylmaleimide, depressed tyrosinolation in resting PMN and completely inhibited the fMet-Leu-Phe-induced stimulation. In contrast, addition of diamide, which preferentially oxidizes cellular glutathione, significantly stimulated tyrosinolation both in resting and fMet-Leu-Phe-stimulated PMN. Furthermore, resting levels of tyrosinolation in seven patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), whose oxidative metabolism is severely depressed, were 35-45% lower (P < 0.01). Most strikingly, PMN from CGD patients failed to respond to fMet-Leu-Phe or the Ca2+-ionophore A23187, which also induced stimulation of tyrosinolation in normal resting PMN dative metabolism and the associated changes in the redox state in stimulated PMN are coupled to the induction of stimulation of tubulin tyrosinolation in these cells.
A new cyclic dipeptide, 3-a[(4-hydroxybenzyl)methyl]hexahydropyrrolo[1,2-a]pyrazine-1,4-dione (1) together with the known compounds, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), and 6-(3-methylbut-2-enyl)isatin (3) were isolated from the actinobacterium Streptomyces sp. GW 33/1593. Compounds 1 and 2 possessed cytotoxic activity against the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus intermedius embryos.
Under conditions of iron limitation many rhizospheric bacteria produce siderophores, ferric iron-specific ligands, which may enhance plant growth by increasing the availability of iron near the roots. Thirty-five strains of Rhizobium ciceri, specific to chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.), were screened for their ability to grow on iron-deficient medium and to produce siderophores. Maximal growth of all strains previously depleted in iron was obtained in medium containing 5 to 10 μm of ferric iron. When iron limitation was achieved by the addition of 2,2-bipyridyl or EDDHA [ethylene diamine di(o-hydroxyphenyl) acetic acid] to the medium, only two strains were able to scavenge iron and grow. Siderophore production by these two strains was detected by the Chrome Azurol S assay (CAS), a universal test for siderophores. No hydroxamate-type siderophores were detected in the supernatants of Rhizobium ciceri cultures. However, some strains secreted salicylic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid as phenolate-type siderophores. Addition of ferric iron to the culture medium increased growth yield significantly but depressed the production of siderophores. Although these compounds are produced in response to iron deficiency, nutritive components of the culture medium significantly affected their production. It seems that CuII, MoVI and MnII ions bound competitively with iron to siderophores, resulting in a 34 to 100% increase in production.
A microchip-based solid-phase extraction method for biological fluid small molecule analysis has been developed. Using a commercially available copolymer packed into a microchip channel, extraction and preconcentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA from saliva was achieved. The metabolites, formed from salicylic acid by reactive oxygen species, can be used as markers of oxidative stress. The results show high recovery of both metabolites (>90+/-15% for spiked saliva) with an 80-fold concentration enhancement possible. The eluent is directly analyzed using capillary electrophoresis, with good resolution for the two metabolites. This study demonstrates the feasibility of future integrated microdevices for spaceflight small molecule biomarker analysis.
The present study examined the antioxidant effect of histidine on extracellular potassium ion concentration, [K+]o-induced depolarization enhances 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation in the rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/M microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Induction of [K+]o (20, 70 and 140 mM) significantly increased the level of 2,3-DHBA by the action of MPP+ (5 mM) in a concentration-dependent manner. However, histidine (25 mM) reduced the [K+]o-induced *OH formation. Although the level of MPP+-induced dopamine (DA) and 2,3-DHBA formation after [K+]o (70 mM) treatment increased, [K+]o failed to increase either the level of MPP+-induced DA and 2,3-DHBA in the reserpinized group. When iron (II) was administered to [K+]o (70 mM)-pretreated rats, iron (II) clearly produced a dose-dependent increase in the level of 2,3-DHBA, as compared with MPP+-only treated rats. However, in the presence of histidine (25 mM), the effect of [K+]o was abolished. These results indicated that histidine may reduce the [K+]o-induced depolarization enhanced *OH formation by the action of MPP+ in the rat striatum.
After elicitation, cell suspension cultures of Catharanthus roseus accumulate phenolic compounds. The major phenolic compound produced was isolated and identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). The accumulation of this compound is a rapid response to the addition of elicitor; within 6 h after the addition of elicitor, DHBA concentration reached 6.3 mg/l cell suspension. DHBA was not detected in non-elicited cells. The formation of DHBA in elicited cells was correlated with the induction of the enzyme isochorismate synthase (ICS). Shoot cultures of C. roseus also presented a strong induction of ICS after elicitation. Due to its biological activity, DHBA could play a role in the defence mechanism of C. roseus.
The levels of hydroxyl radicals and oxidized GSH have been examined as indices of oxidative stress in young (3 months), middle-aged (15 months), and old (20-24 months) gerbil brain hippocampus, cortex, and striatum. The hydroxyl radical stress was estimated by measuring the salicylate hydroxyl radical trapping products 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The stress was significantly higher in all three brain regions in middle-aged and old gerbils versus young animals (< or = 66.0%). Regional comparisons showed that the stress was significantly higher in cortex than in either the hippocampus or striatum of the middle-aged and old gerbils (< or = 32.0%). The ratio of oxidized to total GSH also increased progressively in middle-aged and old animals in all three brain regions (p < 0.05, < or = 41.1%), further indicating a general age-related increase in oxidative stress. Parallel to this age-related increase in oxidative stress, a significant, albeit slight (8%), decrease in neuronal number in hippocampal CA1 region was observed in both the middle-aged and old animals. Possible differences in antioxidant levels were also examined. Total GSH levels were similar across age groups (variance < 12%). However, the regional comparison showed that it was highest in striatum in all age groups. The levels of alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) were significantly higher in the middle-aged and old animals in all three regions (< or = 70.4%). Vitamin E was highest in the hippocampus and the differences between the hippocampus and the cortex and striatum increased with age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1 These techniques are now employed to generate new polymorphs of 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, 3,4-, and 3,5-positional isomers of dihydroxybenzoic acids. These compounds are prone to give solvate/hydrate forms upon crystallization. Two polymorphs of 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a new polymorph of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and guest free form of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were crystallized by melting and sublimation. A new hydrate polymorph of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was isolated. These polymorphs differ in the nature of hydrogen bond synthons in their crystal structure. Structural and thermal characterization of polymorphic phases having multiple Z' will be presented. 
Boric acid is found to inhibit hydrolysis of deprotonated 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid p-nitrophenyl ester, which occurs via the intramolecular mechanism of base catalysis, and virtually does not affect the hydrolysis of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid p-nitrophenyl ester. This phenomenon contradicts the borate-catalyzed hydrolysis of salicylic acid esters observed earlier and simulates borate inhibition of serine proteases.
Non-oxidative decarboxylases belong to a unique enzyme family that does not require any cofactors. Here we report the characterization of a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) decarboxylase (BDC) from Klebsiella pneumoniae and explore its application on the production of muconic acid. The enzyme properties were systematically studied, including the optimal temperature and pH, kinetic parameters, and substrate specificity. On this basis, we designed an artificial pathway for muconic acid production by connecting 2,3-DHBA biosynthesis with its degradation pathway. Over-expression of entCBA and the key enzymes in the shikimate pathway led to the production of 900 mg L(-1) of 2,3-DHBA. Further, expression of the BDC coupled with catechol 1,2-dioxygenase achieved the conversion of 2,3-DHBA into muconic acid. Finally, assembly of the total pathway resulted in the de novo production of muconic acid up to 480 mg L(-1).
Garlic has been reported to provide protection against hypercholesterolemic atherosclerosis and ischemia-reperfusion-induced arrhythmias and infarction. Oxygen free radicals (OFRs) have been implicated as causative factors in these diseases and antioxidants have been shown to be effective against these conditions. The effectiveness of garlic in these disease states could be due to its ability to scavenge OFRs. However, the OFR-scavenging activity of garlic is not known. Also it is not known if its activity is affected by cooking. We therefore investigated, using high pressure liquid chromatography, the ability of garlic extract (heated or unheated) to scavenge exogenously generated hydroxyl radical (·OH). ·OH was generated by photolysis of H202 (1.2–10 pmoles/ml) with ultraviolet (UV) light and was trapped with salicylic acid (500 nmoles/ml). H2O2 produced ·OH in a concentration-dependent manner as estimated by ·OH adduct products 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA. Garlic extract (5–100 μl/ml) produced an inhibition (30–100%) of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA generated by photolysis of H202 (5.00 pmoles/ml) in a concentration-dependent manner. Its activity is reduced by 10% approximately when heated to 100°C for 20, 40 or 60 min. The extent of reduction in activity was similar for the three heating periods. Garlic extract prevented the ·OH-induced formation of malondialdehyde in the rabbit liver homogenate in a concentration-dependent manner. It alone did not affect the MDA levels in the absence of ·OH. These results indicate that garlic extract is a powerful scavenger of ·OH and that heating reduces its activity slightly.
Iron transport by Scn requires the presence of a siderophore, since Scn has no measurable affinity for iron alone [3] . Bacterial catecholate siderophores, like Ent and its substituent, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA; Figure 1B ), are unlikely to fulfill the requirements of an iron delivery pathway because iron is not released from Scn/siderophore/iron complexes (holo-Scn) until acidification below pH 4, which is not readily achieved in most cellular compartments, such as endocytic vesicles [7] . Two candidate endogenous siderophores have been proposed: i) simple catechols, including catechol itself (1,2-dihydroxybenzene), mediating iron delivery [13] , and ii) compounds that include gentisic acid (GA; 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) substituents mediating cellular iron efflux [16] . Bao and coworkers reported that free catechol binds poorly to Scn (K D = 0.2060.06 mM), but catechol/ iron complexes bind tightly (K D1 = 2.160.5 nM/ K D2 = 0.460.2 nM), and that: i) catechol can mediate iron transport in the proximal kidney through Scn complexes potentially by the megalin receptor complex; ii) iron from Scn/ Siderocalin/24p3/Lcn2 Does Not Drive Apoptosis PLOS ONE | www.plosone.orgcatechol complexes is released at pHs below 6; and iii) Fe(catechol) x can be directly visualized by X-ray crystallography bound in the Scn ligand-binding site or 'calyx'. Devireddy and coworkers reported that: i) GA can be isolated from conditioned media; ii) binds to Scn tightly in the absence of iron (K D = 12 nM); iii) supports iron transport by Scn in vitro; and iv) is synthesized endogenously by a cytosolic type II R-b-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (DHRS6) also known as BDH2.
We examined the effect of non-SH-containing angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor imidaprilat on hydroxyl radical (.OH) generation using microdialysis. Salicylic acid in Ringer's solution containing sodium salicylate (0.5 n mol microL-1 min-1) was infused directly through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of .OH as reflected by the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the myocardium of anesthetized rats. We compared the ability of two non-SH-containing ACE inhibitors (imidaprilat and enalaprilat) with an -SH-containing ACE inhibitor (captopril) to scavenge the .OH. When iron (II) was administered to animals pretreated with these three ACE inhibitors, a decrease in 2,3-DHBA of all three compounds was observed, as compared with the iron (II) only-treated group. All three ACE inhibitors were able to scavenge .OH generated by the action of iron (II). However, imidaprilat is a free radical scavenger more potent than enalaprilat. These results suggested that ACE inhibitors are probably not only related to the presence of the SH radical.
Cranberries are a rich source of (poly)phenols, in particular proanthocyanidins, anthocyanins, flavonols, and phenolic acids. However, little is known about their bioavailability in humans. We investigated the absorption, metabolism, and excretion of cranberry (poly)phenols in plasma and urine of healthy young men after consumption of a cranberry juice (787 mg (poly)phenols). A total of 60 cranberry-derived phenolic metabolites were identified using UPLC-Q-TOF-MS analysis with authentic standards. These included sulfates of pyrogallol, valerolactone, benzoic acids, phenylacetic acids, glucuronides of flavonols, as well as sulfates and glucuronides of cinnamic acids. The most abundant plasma metabolites were small phenolic compounds, in particular hippuric acid, catechol-O-sulfate, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, phenylacetic acid, isoferulic acid, 4-methylcatechol-O-sulfate, α-hydroxyhippuric acid, ferulic acid 4-O-sulfate, benzoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid, dihydrocaffeic acid 3-O-sulfate, and vanillic acid-4-O-sulfate. Some benzoic acids, cinnamic acids, and flavonol metabolites appeared in plasma early, at 1-2 h post-consumption. Others such as phenylacetic acids, benzaldehydes, pyrogallols, catechols, hippuric and dihydrocinnamic acid derivatives appear in plasma later (Tmax 4-22 h). The 24 h urinary recovery with respect to the amount of (poly)phenols consumed was 6.2%. Our extensive description of the bioavailability of cranberry (poly)phenols lays important groundwork necessary to start understanding the fate of these compounds in humans.
Biochemical analysis of the enzymatic activity catalyzing the conversion of chorismate to isochorismate in the enterobactin biosynthetic pathway attributed the reaction to the isochorismate synthetase enzyme, designated EntC. However, the lack of mutations defining this activity has hampered the precise identification of the entC structural gene. In this study, we engineered a stable insertion mutation into the chromosomal region between the enterobactin genes fepB and entE. This mutation disrupted the structural gene for a previously identified 44-kilodalton protein and eliminated production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the catechol precursor of enterobactin. The complete nucleotide sequence of this gene was determined and compared with the sequences of other genes encoding chorismate-utilizing proteins. The similarities observed in these comparisons not only indicated that the locus is entC but also supported the premise that these enzymes constitute a family of related proteins sharing a common evolutionary origin. In addition, in this and the accompanying paper (M. S. Nahlik, T. J. Brickman, B. A. Ozenberger, and M. A. McIntosh, J. Bacteriol. 171:784-790, 1989), evidence is presented indicating that the entA product is potentially a secondary factor in the chorismate-to-isochorismate conversion and that the prototypic entC lesion (entC401) resides in the structural gene for the EntA protein. Finally, polarity effects from the insertion mutation in entC on downstream biosynthetic genes indicated that this locus is the promoter-proximal cistron in an ent operon comprising at least five genes. Appropriate regulatory signals upstream of entC suggest that this operon is regulated by iron through interaction with the Fur repressor protein.
The present study examined the effect of iron (III) on the generation of free hydroxyl radicals (•OH) in the extracellular fluid of rat myocardium. The generation of •OH was assessed by infusing sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/µl per min) directly into the myocardium of the anaesthetised rat through a microdialysis probe and measuring the non-enzymatic reaction product 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) trapped in the dialysate. Tyramine increased the level of 2,3-DHBA concentration dependently. However, in the presence of iron (III) (50 µM), the effect of tyramine was abolished. When iron (III) (50 µM) was administered to tyramine (1 mM)-pre-treated animals, the tyramine-induced stimulation of noradrenaline did not change, but the level of 2,3-DHBA decreased significantly (n=6, P<0.05). When desferrioxamine (DES), a strong iron (III) chelator, was administered to tyramine (1 mM)-pre-treated animals, a marked increase in 2,3-DHBA formation was seen. Administration of iron (II) to the DES-pre-treated animals increased 2,3-DHBA markedly compared with the iron (II)-only treated group, with a positive linear correlation between iron (II) concentration and •OH trapped as 2,3-DHBA (R 2=0.987). DES can reduce iron (III) and thus markedly increases •OH formation. To examine the effect of iron (III) on ischaemia/reperfusion of the myocardium, the heart was subjected to myocardial ischaemia for 15 min by occlusion of the left anterior descending branch of the coronary artery. On reperfusion, noradrenaline and 2,3-DHBA rose markedly in the heart dialysate. The presence of iron (III) (50 µM) abolished the elevation of 2,3-DHBA. Iron (III) also significantly blunted the rise of serum creatine phosphokinase, an index of myocardial damage. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of •OH formation by iron (III) may play a key role in the cardioprotective effect of iron (III) in the rat heart.
The present study examined the antioxidant effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE), imidaprilat, on para-nonylphenol and 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) formation and dopamine (DA) efflux in extracellular fluid of rat striatum, using a microdialysis technique. para-Nonylphenol clearly enhanced *OH formation and DA efflux induced by MPP+. When imidaprilat was infused in para-nonylphenol and MPP+-treated rats, DA efflux and *OH formation significantly decreased, as compared with that in the para-nonylphenol and MPP+-treated control. Imidaprilat was able to scavenge *OH and DA efflux induced by para-nonylphenol and MPP+. When iron(II) was administered to para-nonylphenol-pretreated animals, iron(II) clearly produced a dose-dependent increase in the levels of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), as compared with MPP+-only-treated rats. A positive linear correlation was observed between iron(II) and 2,3-DHBA (R2=0.985) in the dialysate. However, in the presence of imidaprilat, a small increase in the levels of 2,3-DHBA products was observed. The results suggest that imidaprilat may protect against para-nonylphenol and MPP+-induced *OH formation via suppressing DA efflux in the rat striatum.
Abstract 1. 1. Two mutant strains of Streptomyces rimosus NRRL 2234 that are no longer able to synthesise oxytetracycline have been shown to produce shikimic acid-derived metabolites, including phenolic compounds, when grown on a defined medium with a high carbon to nitrogen ratio. 2. 2. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde, phenylacetic acid, phenylacetamide and as yet two incompletely identified non-aromatic β-diketones were isolated after 4 days fermentation at 28°. 3. 3. The possible relationship of these metabolites to oxytetracycline biosynthesis has been discussed.
The degradation of fluoranthene by pure cultures of Alcaligenes denitrificanss WW1, isolated from contaminated soil samples, was investigated. The strain showed maximum degradation rates of 0.3 mg fluoranthene/ml per day. A denitrificans was able to utilize also naphthalene, 1- and 2-methylnaphthalene, phenanthrene, and anthracene as sole carbon sources and to co-metabolize fuuorence, pyrene, and benzo(a)anthracene. During growth on fluoranthene in batch culture two metabolic products that were completely degraded before growth entered the stationary phase were detected in the culture fluid. Anslyses by UV, mass and NMR spectroscopy identified the products as acenaphthenone and 3-hydroxymethyl-4,5-benzocoumarine. Fluoranthene-grown resting cells of A. denitrificans showed degradative activity towards 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, pyrogallol, salicylic acid, and catechol. The enzymatic activities in extracts of fluoranthene-induced cells indicate a meta ring fission involved in the degradation of fluoranthene. From these data new aspects of the biodegradative pathway of fluoranthene have been predicted.
Biochemical analysis of the enzymatic activity catalyzing the conversion of chorismate to isochorismate in the enterobactin biosynthetic pathway attributed the reaction to the isochorismate synthetase enzyme, designated EntC. However, the lack of mutations defining this activity has hampered the precise identification of the entC structural gene. In this study, we engineered a stable insertion mutation into the chromosomal region between the enterobactin genes fepB and entE. This mutation disrupted the structural gene for a previously identified 44-kilodalton protein and eliminated production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the catechol precursor of enterobactin. The complete nucleotide sequence of this gene was determined and compared with the sequences of other genes encoding chorismate-utilizing proteins. The similarities observed in these comparisons not only indicated that the locus is entC but also supported the premise that these enzymes constitute a family of related proteins sharing a common evolutionary origin. In addition, in this and the accompanying paper (M. S. Nahlik, T. J. Brickman, B. A. Ozenberger, and M. A. McIntosh, J. Bacteriol. 171:784-790, 1989), evidence is presented indicating that the entA product is potentially a secondary factor in the chorismate-toisochorismate conversion and that the prototypic entC lesion (entC401) resides in the structural gene for the EntA protein. Finally, polarity effects from the insertion mutation in entC on downstream biosynthetic genes indicated that this locus is the promoter-proximal cistron in an ent operon comprising at least five genes. Appropriate regulatory signals upstream of entC suggest that this operon is regulated by iron through interaction with the Fur repressor protein.
Biosynthesis of the catechol siderophore enterobactin in Escherichia coli is a two-stage process involving the initial production of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) from the aromatic amino acid precursor chorismate and the subsequent conversion of DHBA and L-serine to the active chelator. The three soluble enzymes required for the initial stage are EntC, (isochorismate synthetase), EntB (2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate synthetase), and EntA (2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoate dehydrogenase). Intermediates in the biosynthetic reactions catalyzed by these enzymes have been identified (32). The genes encoding the initialstage enzymes were predicted to be linked transcriptionally on the clockwise end of the complex enterobactin gene cluster at min 13 on the E. coli chromosomal map (7). In the second stage of enterobactin biosynthesis, the proposed enterobactin synthetase multienzyme complex, suggested to contain the entD, entE, entF, and entG gene products (11), catalyzes the synthesis of one enterobactin molecule from three molecules each of DHBA and L-serine. These stage two genes are scattered throughout the enterobactin gene cluster (8, 19, 24, 25) .
Many findings demonstrated that Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and Proteoglycans (PGs) possess antioxidant activity. Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) is an experimental animal model similar to human rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in which free radicals are involved. Sodium salicylate can be used as a chemical trap for hydroxyl radicals (OH*), the most damaging reactive oxygen species (ROS), yielding 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid), (2,5-DHBA) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). The measurement of these two acids in the plasma allows to indirectly assess the production of OH* radicals. The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of hyaluronic acid (HYA) (30 mg/kg i.p.) or chondroitin-4-sulphate (C4S) (30 mg/kg i.p.), on free radical production in Lewis rats subjected to CIA. After the immunization with bovine collagen type II in complete Freund's adjuvant, rats developed an erosive hind paw arthritis, that produced high plasma OH* levels assayed as 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA, primed lipid peroxidation, evaluated by analyzing conjugated dienes (CD) in the articular cartilage; decreased the concentration of endogenous vitamin E (VE) and catalase (CA) in the joint cartilage; enhanced macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) serum levels and increased elastase (ELA) evaluated as an index of activated leukocyte polymophonuclear (PMNs) accumulation in the articular joints. The administration of HYA and C4S starting at the onset of arthritis (day 11) for 20 days, limited inflammation and the clinical signs in the knee and paw, reduced OH* production, decreased CD levels, partially restored the endogenous antioxidants VE and CA, reduced MIP-2 serum levels and limited PMNs infiltration. The results indicate that the GAGs HYA and C4S significantly reduce free radical production in CIA and could be used as a tool to investigate the role of antioxidants in RA.
Abstract A new intermediate in the biosynthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in Aerobacter aerogenes has been isolated and identified as 2-hydroxy-3-(1′-carboxyvinyloxy)-2,3-dihydrobenzoic acid for which the trivial name isochorismic acid is suggested. Methods for the assay of isochorismic acid are described. Salicylic acid and 3-carboxyphenylpyruvic acid are readily produced chemically from isochorismic acid under mild conditions. It is suggested that isochorismic acid may be the metabolic precursor of these compounds in other organisms.
Reperfusion of tissues after interruption of their vascular supply causes free-radical generation that leads to tissue damage, a scenario referred to as "reperfusion injury." Because sickle disease involves repeated transient ischemic episodes, we sought evidence for excessive free-radical generation in sickle transgenic mice. Compared with normal mice, sickle mice at ambient air had a higher ethane excretion (marker of lipid peroxidation) and greater conversion of salicylic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (marker of hydroxyl radical generation). During hypoxia (11% O(2)), only sickle mice converted tissue xanthine dehydrogenase to oxidase. Only the sickle mice exhibited a further increase in ethane excretion during restitution of normal oxygen tension after 2 hours of hypoxia. Only the sickle mice showed abnormal activation of nuclear factor-kappaB after exposure to hypoxia-reoxygenation. Allopurinol, a potential therapeutic agent, decreased ethane excretion in the sickle mice. Thus, sickle transgenic mice exhibit biochemical footprints consistent with excessive free-radical generation even at ambient air and following a transient induction of enhanced sickling. We suggest that reperfusion injury physiology may contribute to the evolution of the chronic organ damage characteristic of sickle cell disease. If so, novel therapeutic approaches might be of value.
Abstract Washed cell suspensions of Aerobacter aerogenes NC 3 , an auxotroph growing with trypophan, indole or anthranilic acid, accumulate a number of phenolic compounds when incubated in phosphate buffer with glucose, ammonium and magnesium ions. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catechol and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid have been identified after 6 h incubation. After longer incubation (20 h) 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic is not detected. An as yet unidentified compound with certain characteristics of a phenol and properties suggesting the presence of o -dihydroxy, amino and carboxylic acid grouping in the molecule has also been detected.
Pine sapwood veneer strips were subjected to Fenton's reagent (hydrogen peroxide and iron ions) without and in the presence of the iron chelator 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Incubation was carried out in water (unbuffered) and in acetate buffer in order to assess the effect of the oxidising systems on the weight loss and tensile strength loss as well as on the mineralisation of wood. A great amount of carbon dioxide was produced during the incubation and revealed that organic substances (wood, DHBA, and acetate buffer) were mineralized due to Fenton's reaction. The degree of oxidative wood degradation by Fenton's reagent was greater in the buffered solutions than in the aqueous solutions. DHBA accelerated the decomposition of H2O2 in the solution but reduced the loss in weight and tensile strength and the degrees of mineralization of wood as compared to the system without DHBA.
1. Crystal formed a phosphodiesterase type 5 - tadalafil - of formula (T) and koformerom Y: wherein Y is selected from 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4, 5-trigidroksibenzoynoy acid aliphatic hydroxycarboxylic acid, D-malic acid and L-tartaric acid, as well as solvates, hydrates and polymorphs T: Y.2. . A compound according to claim 1 wherein Y is 3-hydroxybenzoic acid; and solvates, hydrates and polimorfy.3. . A compound according to claim 1, wherein Y represents a 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; and solvates, hydrates and polimorfy.4. . A compound according to claim 1, wherein Y is 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid; and solvates, hydrates and polimorfy.5. . A compound according to claim 1, wherein Y is a 3,4,5-trigidroksibenzoynuyu acid; and solvates, hydrates and polimorfy.6. . A compound according to claim 1, wherein Y represents a D-malic acid; and solvates, hydrates and polimorfy.7. . A compound according to claim 1, wherein Y is a L-tartaric acid; and solvates, hydrates and polimorfy.8. Use of a compound according to Claim. 1 in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition useful for inhibiting phosphodiesterase 5th tipa.9. Use of a compound according to Claim. 1 in the manufacture of a pharmaceutical composition suitable for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial gipertenzii.10. A method for producing co-crystals of the compound according to Claim. 1 by grinding, crystallization from a saturated solution and / or conversion of the solid phase (slurry) .11. A compound according to claim 5, wherein the molar ratio of tadalafil:. Koformer: solvent ratio of 2: 1: 1.12. A compound according to claim 7, wherein the molar ratio of tadalafil:. Koformer: solvent ratio of 2: 1: 1.13. Compound
We examined whether fluvastatin, an inhibitor of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, can resist 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+))-induced hydroxyl radical generation (.OH) in the extracellular fluid of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microliter/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of.OH as reflected by the nonenzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. MPP(+) (5 mM; total dose 75 nmol) clearly produced an increase in.OH formation. However, fluvastatin (100 microM) reduced the.OH formation by the action of MPP(+). These results indicated that fluvastatin, a potent inhibitor of LDL oxidation, may resist the formation of.OH products of MPP(+).
Six compounds were isolated as radical scavengers from the culture broth of a marine-derived actinomycete strain USF-TC31. The structures of two novel compounds were determined to be those of N-carbamoyl-2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (5) and 2-acetamido-3-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoylthio)propanoic acid (6), and four known compounds were identified to be anthranilic acid (1), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3) and benadrostin (4) on the basis of spectroscopic data. Compound 6 was characterized as a racemate by its specific rotation. Each of the obtained compounds was evaluated for DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) radical scavenging activity, and compounds 2, 3, 5 and 6 each exhibited potent activity in comparison with the butylhydroxytoluene (BHT) positive control.
The gene coding for the enzyme 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate-AMP ligase (2,3DHB-AMP ligase), responsible for activating 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the biosynthesis of the siderophore enterobactin, has been subcloned into the multicopy plasmid pKK223-3 and overproduced in a strain of Escherichia coli. The protein is an alpha 2 dimer with subunit molecular mass of 59 kDa. The enzyme catalyzes the exchange of [32P]pyrophosphate with ATP, dependent upon aromatic substrate with a turnover number of 340 min-1. The enzyme also releases pyrophosphate upon incubation with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and ATP; an initial burst corresponding to 0.7 nmol of pyrophosphate released per nanomole of enzyme is followed by a slower, continuous release with a turnover number of 0.41 min-1. The 1000-fold difference in rates observed between ATP-pyrophosphate exchange and continuous pyrophosphate release, as well as the close to stoichiometric amount of pyrophosphate released, suggests that intermediates are accumulating on the enzyme surface. Such intermediates have been observed and correspond to enzyme-bond (2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)adenylate product.
BIOCHEMISTRY ::: Iron is an essential component of many enzymes, and microbes synthesize and secrete siderophores—small molecules that bind avidly to free iron in soils and in oceans—for the purpose of sequestering as much of it as they can. Many of these siderophores contain 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as an ironchelating moiety; not coincidentally, the mammalian innate immunity protein siderocalin defends against pathogens by enveloping 2,3-DHBA siderophores and thus blocking bacterial iron acquisition. The anthrax bacterium makes petrobactin, a siderophore that uses the less common 3,4-DHBA as its iron chelator, which enables it to evade the clutches of siderocalin. ::: ::: Using biochemical and structural analyses, Pfleger et al . show that the Bacillus anthracis protein AsbF catalyzes the conversion of 3-dehydroshikimate (3-DHS) into 3,4-DHBA via a manganese-dependent formation of an enolate intermediate, followed by elimination of the C5 hydroxyl. Why does this matter? These authors show that deleting asbF from an otherwise deadly strain of B. anthracis abolishes virulence in a mouse model of inhalation anthrax. Petrobactin is produced by other pathogenic Bacillus species, and Fox et al . demonstrate that AsbF from a B . thuringiensis strain also dehydrates 3-DHS. — GJC ::: ::: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 105 , 17133 (2008); Biochemistry 47 , 10.1021/bi801876q (2008).
In the present study , the role of the phenolic compounds and the pollen grains as differential diagnosis of Senna senna plants grow in the Valleys and on the Mountains of Mekkah was demonstrated. Since Senna is a member of the anthracene group of purgatives, its active principles being derivatives of anthraquinone , the present work aimad also at investigating its phenolic compounds that have medicinal significance. Flavonoids were classified according to their chemical structure to three groups: O-Flavonols included quercetin rutin quercetin-3-glucoside quercetin-3-rhamnoside and kaempferol. O-Flavones were represented by apigenin. It was accompanied by its C-Flavone, vitexin. Both hydrolysable and condensed tannins were detected. Three phenolic acids were detected; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Phloroglucinol ,(-)-epicatechin; the precursor of condensed tannins and (+)-catechin, the flavan desivative were also detected .The medicinal importance of the isolated phenolic compounds was given. . Generally the pollen grain of the studied taxa of the genus Senna growing in the vallyes and on the mountains of Makkah are radically symmetrical, isopolar, tricolporat and triangular trilobed with fossulate sculpture. ::: The chemotaxonomical and palynological studies of the studied taxa of the genus Senna are not inagreement except for the flowers. There fore further detals of the flavonoid constituents and their distribution especially of those which are less wid spread, are to be studied because as understanding of their chemical properties will be helpful in the interpretation of their chemotaxonomical properties of Senna senna plants
Three classes of mutants defective in the biosynthesis of the siderophore agrobactin were isolated from Agrobacterium tumefaciens A217 after N -methyl- N ′-nitro- N -nitrosoguanidine mutagenesis. Class I mutants produced uniquely the catechol 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, whereas classes II and III produced no detectable catechol. Class II differed from class III mutants in that exogenous 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was utilized only by the former to synthesize agrobactin. Growth of strains B6 and A217, under iron starvation, led to enhanced production of several envelope proteins migrating in the 80,000-dalton range upon sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. One mutant, defective in agrobactin iron utilization, lacked one of these proteins. This protein may represent a siderophore receptor or fragment or subunit thereof. With a single exception, all of the mutants obtained in this work were capable of initiating tumorous growth in sunflower plants and on carrot root disks, provided pTiB6806 was present. Comparison of the catechols produced by strain B6806 and its nononcogenic, Ti-plasmid-deficient derivative A217, indicated that the genes encoding agrobactin synthesis are not associated with the virulence plasmid of A. tumefaciens B6806. Analysis of gall tissue for agrobactin did not reveal the presence of this siderophore. Finally, citrate, an iron-carrier in plants, enhanced significantly the growth of the agrobactin-deficient mutants in a low-iron medium. These results suggest that the production of agrobactin in planta is not requisite to infection and that citrate may serve as an alternative carrier of iron for A. tumefaciens within the host. Images
The binary and ternary complex stability constants between 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DA) and N-acetylcysteine (Nac) with the divalent metal ions (M) Mn2+, Co2+, Ni2+, Cu2+ and Zn2+ were studied in aqueous solution at 310.15 K and an ionic medium of 0.15 mol·dm−3 NaCl. The complexes’ stability constants (log10 β), refined from the potentiometric data using the Hyperquad2008 program, indicate that the ternary complexes are more stable than the binary complexes. The stability constants were supported by additional computation, refined from the spectrophotometric data using the Hypspec program. The values of the ternary complex stability relative to their binary complex (Δlog10 K) and the disproportionation constant (log10 X) indicate that formation of ternary complex species [M(DA)(Nac)]3− is more favorable than that of species formed by two identical ligands, [M(DA)2]4− or [M(Nac)2]2−. For the investigated M, the stability of complexes follows the trend Cu2+ > Zn2+ > Ni2+ > Co2+ > Mn2+.
A number of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid amides such as polyamine derivatives: parabactin [1 ] , agrobactin [2] , vibriobactin [3] , or amino acid derivatives: glycine [4] , lysine [5] , serine [6 ] , and threonine [7] , as well as depsipeptide enterobactin [8] have been iso lated from bacterial cultures. Due to the powerful ligand potency of catechol groups most of them act as iron carriers of natural origin -siderophores [9] .
Six compounds were isolated as radical scavengers from the culture broth of a marine-derived actinomycete strain USF-TC31. The structures of two novel compounds were determined to be those of N-carbamoyl-2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (5) and 2-acetamido-3-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoylthio)propanoic acid (6), and four known compounds were identified to be anthranilic acid (1), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 2,3-dihydroxybenzamide (3) and benadrostin (4) on the basis of spectroscopic data. Compound 6 was characterized as a racemate by its specific rotation. Each of the obtained compounds was evaluated for DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) radical scavenging activity, and compounds 2, 3, 5 and 6 each exhibited potent activity in comparison with the butylhydroxytoluene (BHT) positive control.
Abstract The effects of operational parameters upon the hydroxyl radical generation of sonochemical reactors are critical to optimize this technology for wastewater treatment purposes. Salicylic acid dosimetry, due to its chemical and physical properties, is a very adequate method to characterize a sonochemical reactor by indirect determination of the OH radicals generated in the cavitating process. The degradation products, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHB) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB), are specific and easily determined with HPLC methods. The most significant parameters were determined by designing a 2 5 factorial set of experiments and applying some statistical tools to the results obtained with the dosimeter. When operating within a limited range (typical range of standard sonochemical reactors) the statistical tools showed that only the dosimeter concentration and the reactor geometry were mathematically significant in the process.
New double-stranded peptide chelators (1) conjugated Cat (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were synthesized and formed a molecular complex 1-Eu3+ (or 1-Lu3+) with Eu3+ and Lu3+ but not La3+. The double-stranded peptide chelator may prove to be useful tools for studying the selective separation of lanthanide ions.
The present report describes a method suitable for the indirect assay of hydroxyl radical (OH.), which is likely to be produced during reperfusion of ischemic myocardium. Isolated rat heart perfused by the Langendorff technique was subjected to 30 min of ischemia, followed by 30 min of reperfusion. Salicylic acid (2 mM) was added to the perfusion circuit to trap any OH. radical generated during the experiment. 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids (hydroxylated products of salicylic acid) were identified by authentic standards as well as by pure OH.-generating system using high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. In addition to serving as a chemical trap for the detection of OH., salicylate attenuated myocardial reperfusion injury as evidenced by reduced formation of creatine kinase, decreased lipid peroxidation, and improved myocardial contractile functions during reperfusion. These results thus provide direct evidence for the presence of OH. in heart and link it to the myocardial reperfusion injury.
SummaryAmonabactin is a siderophore fromAeromonas hydrophila which is produced in two biologically active forms composed of the phenolate 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB), lysine, glycine, and either trytophan (amonabactin T) or phenylalanine (amonabactin P). Amonabactin biosynthetic mutants (generated by chemical mutagenesis) that either produced no amonabactin or overproduced the siderophore were isolated and identified on chrome azurol S siderophore detection agar. Amonabactin-negative mutants were of two categories. One type produced no phenolates and used exogenous DHB to synthesize amonabactin (both forms) while the other type excreted DHB but not amonabactin. This suggests an amonabactin biosynthetic pathway composed of two segments, one producing DHB and the other assembling amonabactin from DHB and the amino acids. Overproduction mutants used amonabactin poorly or not at all, indicating that they contained lesions in amonabactin utilization. Adding the analogd-tryptophan to wild-typeA. hydrophila cultures reduced synthesis of both amonabactin T and amonabactin P and lengthened the lag phase in iron restricted medium. The tryptophan and phenylalanine forms of amonabactin may be synthesized by a single assembly pathway that contains a novel enzyme (sensitive tod-tryptophan) which inserts either tryptophan or phenylalanine into amonabactin.
Abstract The efficacy of sonochemical reactors in chemical processing applications has been well established in the laboratory scale of operation though at a given set of operating parameters and no efforts have been directed in terms of maximizing the free radical production. In the present work, the effect of different operating parameters viz. pH, power dissipation into the system, effect of additives such as air, haloalkanes, titanium dioxide, iron and oxygen on the extent of hydroxyl radical formation in a sonochemical reactor have been investigated using salicylic acid dosimetry. Possible mechanisms for oxidation of salicylic acid in the presence of different additives have also been established. It has been observed that acidic conditions under optimized power dissipation in the presence of iron powder and oxygen result in maximum liberation of hydroxyl radicals as quantified by the kinetic rate constant for production of 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The study has enabled the optimization of the conditions for maximum efficacy of sonochemical reactors where free radical attack is the controlling mechanism for the chemical processing applications.
A soil microorganism producing iron chelator (siderophore) under low iron stress (up to 2 μM of iron) was identified as Acinetobacter sp. B-W by 16S rDNA sequence analysis, biochemical-, physiological tests and morphological analysis using electron microscope. Catechol nature of siderophore was detected by Arnow test. Although optimal cell growth was identified at 36°C in iron-limited media, significant quantities of siderophore were produced only at 28°C. Biosynthesis of siderophore was strongly inhibited by growth at 36°C. Production of siderophore was completely inhibited by 10 μM FeCl3. Iron chelator produced from Acinetobacter sp. B-W was purified from supernatant using butanol extraction, Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography and HPLC. Purified sideropore was identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid by HPLC, TLC and IR analysis.
We have investigated the natural killer (NK) activity of both fractionated (Percoll density gradient) and unfractionated mononuclear cells from patients with beta-thalassemia major who are iron overloaded as a consequence of chronic transfusion therapy. These patients were found to have significantly decreased NK activity against K562 targets at all effector:target ratios tested (p less than 0.001). Both splenectomized and nonsplenectomized patients had normal proportions of Leu-11b-staining (NK) cells. Since they had normal to elevated absolute white cell and lymphocyte counts, a change in the absolute number of NK cells could not account for the decreased killing. We also found that the decrease in NK activity was transfusion related (r = -0.603, p less than 0.005). To determine whether or not this decrease in NK activity could be related to iron overload, we preincubated patient effector cells with desferrioxamine (DFO) or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) for 6 hr before addition of K562 targets. Both of these iron-chelating agents consistently increased the NK activity of cells from thalassemia patients. DHB had the greater effect, being able to increase patient NK activity to virtually normal levels. On the other hand, preincubation of cells from normal controls with DHB caused only a slight increase in NK activity, while similar treatment with DFO had little or no effect. When target cells were preincubated with the chelating agents before addition of either normal or patient effector cells, no change in cytotoxicity was seen, demonstrating that the chelating agents act at the effector cell level. Furthermore, if the chelating agents were saturated with iron prior to preincubation with the effectors, no increase in the cytotoxicity of thalassemic NK cells was observed. These results indicate that thalassemia patients have a reversible, transfusion-related decrease in NK function which may arise as a consequence of iron overload.
The gene aroL in Escherichia coli K-12, specifying shikimate kinase II, was contransduced with proC at a frequency of 99%. The gene order is lac proC aroL. A 2.7-kilobase BamHI fragment containing aroL+ was cloned into pBR322. This plasmid conferred highly elevated levels of shikimate kinase synthesis which were subject to repression control by tyrR. The of the aromatic amino acids and vitamins (end products), they were added at the following concentrations: Lphenylalanine, i0-M; L-tyrosine, lo-M; L-tryptophan, 5 X lo4 M; p-aminobenzoic acid, 10-6 M; p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4 x 10-6 M; and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 5 x 10-M.
New double-stranded peptide chelators (1) conjugated Cat (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were synthesized and formed a molecular complex 1-Eu 3؉ (or 1-Lu
Key words double-stranded peptide; soft-based chelator; hardness concept; lanthanide ion; binding constant Many studies have described the determination of luminescence, radiotherapeutic applications, and development of chelators for lanthanide ions (Ln 3ϩ ) in the past several years. [1] [2] [3] In the application of lanthanide ions for photometry, fluorometry and bioassay, 4, 5) or Lu 3ϩ ions, we synthesized target double-stranded amino acid-Cat(OH) (8) and double-stranded peptide-Cat(OH) (9) by conjugation with two 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Cat, 5) at N-terminus of the double-stranded peptide (or amino acid) conjugated with two -Ile-Phe-or -Phe-residues to a spacer. 12, 13) In designing the functional chelators we have designed them using absolute hardness (h) and absolute electronegativity (c) based on the hardness concept.
13) Conjugation of 2,3-bis(benzyloxy)benzoic acid, was prepared from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5), with N-terminal of 6 afforded by treating CDI in dry CHCl 3 . Deprotection of Bn group in 7 using 5% Pd/C-H 2 gave new functional double-stranded peptide-Cat(OH) chelators (8) (and (9)), in 60-65% yield. All compounds 6, 7, 8 and 9, provided satisfactory analysis by 761-763 (2006) Communications to the Editor a) The data of lanthanide ions was taken from lit.
Abstract An enzyme has been obtained from extracts of a methionine-vitamin B12 auxotroph of Escherichia coli K-12 which catalyzes the synthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoylserine from 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and l-serine in the presence of ATP. This enzymatic activity appeared only during the later stages of growth and could not be detected when the organism was grown in a glucose-methionine-salts medium containing 2.0 µm FeSO4. The appearance of enzymatic activity from these iron grown cells, when incubated again in fresh medium, was dependent upon the presence of a chelating agent and synthesis de novo of protein. It is suggested that iron may be acting as a corepressor of the synthesis of this enzyme.
Wild oat, Avena fatua L. is a troublesome weed of Australian cereal crops which is developing resistance to many herbicides. Mycoherbicides are a promising alternative to chemical herbicides and their advantages lie in the reduction of chemical usage; reduction in risks to health and the environment; an increase in the value of export commodities and a decrease in production costs. Mycoherbicides are plant pathogenic fungi that are applied in an inundative strategy to control weeds in the same way chemical herbicides are applied. Arguably, the greatest constraint in the development of a mycoherbicide is the environmental conditions that are required to produce an aggressive and extensive infection on the host plant. Superficial water is the most limiting resource, especially in dryland cropping systems and fungal inoculum may require a dew period of more than twelve hours for severe infection to occur (1). ::: ::: The addition of germination stimulants to mycoherbicidal formulations may reduce the dew period requirement. Iron chelators have been shown to reduce infection periods by several hours and increase the aggressiveness of pathogens (2) by leaching iron from the conidium, thus stimulating germination. ::: ::: This study aims to determine if iron chelators, namely Citric Acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 8-hydroxy-7-iodo-5-quinoline sulfonic acid (IQSA) are capable of reducing the dew period requirement of Drechslera avenacea (Curtis and Cooke) Shoem (telomorph: Pyrenophora chaetomioides).
Recently there has been a moderate resurgence in the use of flax-seed in a variety of ways including bread. The scientific basis of its use is very limited. There is some claim for beneficial effects in cancer and lupus nephritis. These claims could be due to its ability to scavenge oxygen radicals. However, its antioxidant activity is not known. Recently a method has been developed to isolate secoisolariciresinol diglucoside (SDG) from defatted flax-seed in large quantity (patent pending). We investigated the ability of SDG to scavenge úOH using high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) method. úOH was generated by photolysis of H2O2 (1.25-10.0 \sgmaelig;moles/ml) with ultraviolet light and was trapped with salicylic acid which is hydroxylated to produce úOH-adduct products 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA. H2O2 produced a concentration-dependent úOH as estimated by 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA. A standard curve was constructed for known concentrations of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA against corresponding area under the peaks which then was used for measurement of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA generated by UV irradiation of H2O2 in the presence of salicylic acid. SDG in the concentration range of 25, 50, 100, 250, 500, 750, 1000 and 2000 \sgmaelig;g/ml (36.4, 72.8, 145.6, 364.0, 728.0, 1092.0, 1456.0 and 2912.0 \sgmaelig;M respectively) produced a concentration-dependent decrease in the formation of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA, the inhibition being 4 and 4.65% respectively with 25 \sgmaelig;g/ml (36.4 \sgmaelig;M) and 82 and 74% respectively with 2000 \sgmaelig;g/ml (2912.0 \sgmaelig;M). The decrease in úOH-adduct products was due to scavenging of úOH not and by scavenging of formed 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA. SDG prevented the lipid peroxidation of liver homogenate in a concentration-dependent manner in the concentration range from 319.3-2554.4 \sgmaelig;M. These results suggest that SDG scavenges úOH and therefore has an antioxidant activity.
Two unprecedented oxygenated aaptaminoids have been synthesized starting from cheap and easily available 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with the satisfactory overall yields of 31% and 34%. The key step of the procedure is the divergent thermic 5-exodig vs base-promoted 6-endodig cyclization of a 5-alkynylquinolinone derivative.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to thermally stable composition of antifreeze cooler, which includes water and glycol in weight ratio equal from approximately 95:5 to approximately 5:95, respectively, and including from approximately 0.01 wt % to approximately 5.0 wt %, at least, one additive, selected from group consisting of 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid, isocitric acid, acetylsalicylic acid and alkaline salts of said acids. Claimed invention also relates to method of glycol stability improvement, as well as to method of obtaining improved antifreeze composition of cooler, which include application of composition described above. EFFECT: increasing stability of antifreeze glycol-based compositions at high temperature. 16 cl, 4 tbl, 5 ex
Nigral cell degeneration induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tertrahydropyridine (MPTP) or its metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MMP+) may involve toxicity induced by nitric oxide. In the present study a microdialysis procedure incorporating salicylate hydroxylation was used to measure striatal hydroxyl radical production through the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). MPP+ (5-20mM for 20 min) increased 2,3-DHBA formation in the rat striatum in a concentration-dependent manner with a concomitant increase in dopamine release and decrease in 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) formation. Inhibition of NO synthesis following N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 1 mM) and 7-nitroindazole monosodium salt (7-NINA; 1 mM), but not N(G)-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME; 1 mM) attenuated the MPP+-induced increase in hydroxyl radical formation. However, neither L-NAME nor 7-NINA had any effect on the MPP+-induced increase in dopamine efflux measured in vivo by microdialysis or in vitro using superfused striatal slices, although nomifensine (10 microM) abolished the MPP+-evoked dopamine efflux in vitro. These data suggest that NO formation is necessary for the production of hydroxyl radical following MPP+ treatment, but is not involved in the MPP+-evoked dopamine release.
The present study examined the antioxidant effect of phytic acid on iron (II)-enhanced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation induced by 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)) in the extracellular fluid of rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Phytic acid (100 microM) did not significantly decrease the levels of MPP(+)-induced *OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA. To confirm the generation of *OH by the Fenton-type reaction, iron (II) was infused through a microdialysis probe. Introduction of iron (II) (10 microM) enhanced MPP(+) induced *OH generation. However, phytic acid significantly suppressed iron (II)-enhanced *OH formation after MPP(+) treatment (n=6, P<0.05). These results suggest that the antiradical effect of phytic acid occurs by chelating iron required for the MPP(+)-enhanced *OH generation via the Fenton-type reaction.
Acrylonitrile (2-propenenitrile; ACN), used in the manufacture of acrylics, plastics and synthetic rubber causes a doserelated increase in glial cell tumors (astrocytomas) in rat brain following chronic inhalation or oral administration (1, 2) . The mechanism(s) by which ACN produces astrocytomas in rodents remains unclear. In vivo and in vitro genotoxicity studies on ACN have yielded inconclusive results (3) (4) (5) (6) . Studies examining DNA binding and adduct formation have shown a low level of DNA binding in rat liver DNA but no adducts have been identified in rat brain or other tumor target organs following ACN treatment (4) . Since ACN induces tumors in the brain but not in the liver, DNA adduct formation by ACN Abbreviations: 2,3-DHBA, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 8-OH-dG, 8-hydroxy-2Ј-deoxyguanosine; ACN, acrylonitrile; dG, 2Ј-deoxyguanosine; GSH, glutathione; GSH-Px, glutathione peroxidase; MDA, malondialdehyde; OTC, 2-oxothiazolidine-4-carboxylic acid; ROS, reactive oxygen species; SA, salicylic acid; SOD, superoxide dismutase.
The brain contains a mixed population of cell types, including astrocytes, the target of ACN carcinogenicity. A previously reported in vivo study demonstrating the selective induction of oxidative stress by ACN in the rat brain could not establish whether oxidative stress was produced specifically in the astrocyte (11) . Thus, the purpose of the present investigation was to determine if ACN caused oxidative stress in rat astrocytes and to further define the mechanism for the induction of oxidative stress by ACN in rat astrocytes (an ACN target cell in vivo) and primary cultured rat hepatocytes (a non-ACN target cell in vivo). As primary cultured astrocytes represent a heterogeneous population of cell types, the DITNC1 cell line was utilized for these experiments. The DITNC1 astrocyte cell line was established from primary cultures of type 1 astrocytes from rat brain diencephalon. These cells retain characteristics consistent with the phenotype of type 1 astrocytes including immunoreactivity towards glial fibrillary acidic protein, and an uptake mechanism for γ-aminobutyric acid (18) . For oxidative stress measurements, several biological endpoints were measured. Oxidative DNA damage was examined by 8-hydroxy-2Ј-deoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) formation, lipid damage was estimated by malondialdehyde (MDA) formation, a product of lipid peroxidation, and hydroxyl radial generation was determined by the aromatic hydroxylation of salicylic acid (SA) to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) (19). Additionally, the non-enzymatic antioxidant, GSH and the enzymatic antioxidants, superoxide dismutase (SOD) catalase, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) were measured.
Iron chelators were screened in an iron-loaded rat model using selective radioiron probes. In all experiments, chelators D and F, in that order, induced significant loss of radioiron compared with controls. However, use of chelator D was associated with side effects, and resulted in the death of some animals. There was some evidence that chelator A also caused iron loss significantly greater than controls. Chelators B, C and E were without apparent enhancing effect on radioiron excretion. This was a blind study and the compounds used were A - 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid; B - N,N1-Dimethyladipohydroxamic acid; C - DL-Phenylalanine hydroxamic acid; D - Ethylenediamine-N,N1-bis(2-hydroxphenylacetic acid); E - Propionohydroxamic acid; and F - Deferrioxamine B.
Abstract Pyrogallol is a simple phenolic compound that serves as an attractive chemical with broad applications in food, agricultural, dyeing, printing, cosmetic, photography, chemical and pharmaceutical industries owing to its antioxidant, antibacterial, antiseptic, anticancer, oxygen-absorbing and strong reducing properties. Currently, pyrogallol is commercially produced by thermal decarboxylation of gallic acid under high temperature and pressure. However, this process is limited by the inaccessible raw material, the strict reaction conditions and the relatively low product yield. Here, we report establishment of a novel and efficient biosynthetic pathway for the synthesis of pyrogallol. First, we identified and characterized an efficient 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) 1-monoxygenase from a series of oxygenases and hydroxylases based on the structural similarity in the substrates and products, which enabled non-natural production of pyrogallol from 2,3-DHBA. Then, over-expression of 2,3-DHBA synthase and 2,3-DHBA 1-monoxygenase achieved synthesis of pyrogallol in Escherichia coli, with a titer of 201.52 mg/L at 24 h. Further optimizations by enhancement of the carbon flux through the shikimate pathway, modular optimization of the pathway and alleviation of the pyrogallol autoxidation boosted pyrogallol titer to 1035.75 mg/L in shake flask experiments. This work constructed an efficient microbial platform for gram per liter level production of pyrogallol, indicating the great potential for industrial biomanufacturing of pyrogallol.
Abstract The present study was examined that the desferrioxamine, a strong iron (III) chelator, enhanced 1 methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP + )-induced hydroxyl radical ( OH) generation in the extracellular fluid of caudate nucleus anesthetized rats. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/μl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Induction of desferrioxamine (50 μM) drastically increased the formation of OH trapped as 2,3-DHBA by the action of MPP + , as compared with MPP + -only-treated animals. Although desferrioxamine did not change the levels of MPP + -induced dopamine, a marked elevation of OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA was observed. When corresponding experiments were performed with reserpinized animals, the level of dopamine and 2,3-DHBA drastically decreased. However, the level of dopamine did not change, but desferrioxamine significantly increased the level of 2,3-DHBA in reserpinized animals. Iron (III) decreased MPP + -induced 2,3-DHBA formations in the presence of dopamine (10 μM). Moreover, when iron (II) was administered to desferrioxamine-treated animals, a marked elevation of 2,3-DHBA was observed, compared with MPP + -only-treated animals, that showed a positive linear correlation between iron (II) and OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA ( R 2 = 0.981) in the dialysate. The present study indicates that the suppression of MPP + -induced OH formation by iron (III) may play a key role in protective effect of iron (III) on the rat brain.
Abstract Hydroxylated radical products of salicylic acid are often used as a relative measurement in free radical research. Several analytical methods exist to determine the amount of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. In this study we use capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) and micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography (MECC) in order to determine these free radical products. The CZE experiment was optimized with a CZE simulation program hpcesim in order to achieve an optimal pH. Calibration curves were recorded in the range 10 −6 –10 −4 M and the detection limit was determined. For both CZE and MECC it was 2·10 −7 M . Both methods resulted in a reproducible analysis of salicylate and its hydroxylated free radical products in 6 min.
A break the lifetime of MBH2+ (T1) vs. salicylic acid concentration plot occurs at around 6 × 10 E(-5) M (corresponding to pH of the solution 4.3). This pH is close to pK1 of leucomethylene blue. The quantum yields of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid increase with increasing salicylic acid concentration over the whole range investigated (9 × 10 E(-6) - 3 × 10 E(-4)M); the growth of the quantum yields becomes more pronounced for pH < 4.35, too.
3-(3-hydroxypropyl)-phthalide 1, a phthalide isolated from the flowers of G. pedicellata Wall. has been synthesized in high yield from 2-carboxybenzaldehyde 3 in 2 steps. Reaction of 1 with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid afforded pedicellosine 2, another phthalide from the leaves of G. pedicellata Wall.
Addition of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a siderophore produced by Brucella abortus, to macrophage cultures prevented intracellular killing of brucellae during the first 12 h after infection and increased the number of intracellular brucellae recovered at 48 h after infection. The protective effect could be demonstrated with inflammatory macrophages, interferon-gamma-activated macrophages and with macrophages supplemented with iron, shown elsewhere to facilitate killing of B abortus.
Pharmaceutical salts of BCS class II second line anti-tuberculosis drug ethionamide (ETH) with various counter ions namely, 2-chloro-4-nitrobenzoic acid (CNB), 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,6HBA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3HBA) and 2,4-dinitrobenzoic acid (DNB) were synthesized by crystal engineering approach. All the synthesized salts were characterized by various spectroscopic (NMR, FT-IR,), thermal (DSC & TGA) and PXRD techniques. The crystal structure of the synthesized salts was determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction techniques. All the reported salts, except ETH-2,3HBA exhibited charge assisted acid pyridine heterosynthon. In ETH-2,3HBA hydoxyl pyridine heterosynthon is observed. In ETH-CNB salt, both ionic and neutral acid pyridine heterosynthon were observed in the asymmetric unit. ETH-DNB salt consists of both partial and complete proton transfer from DNB to ETH in the asymmetric unit. All the synthesized salts were found to be non-hygroscopic at accelerated humid condition (~75% RH). Solubility experiment has been performed in purified water and in 0.1N HCl (pH=1) solution and found that the solubility of ETH-CNB salt was about eight-fold higher soluble than ETH in purified water. The solubility of synthesized salts follows the order of ETH
Acinetobacter baumannii causes severe infections in compromised patients, who present an iron-limited environment that controls bacterial growth. This pathogen has responded to this restriction by expressing high-affinity iron acquisition systems including that mediated by the siderophore acinetobactin. Gene cloning, functional assays and biochemical tests showed that the A. baumannii genome contains a single functional copy of an entA ortholog. This gene, which is essential for the biosynthesis of the acinetobactin precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), locates outside of the acinetobactin gene cluster, which otherwise harbors all genes needed for acinetobactin biosynthesis, export and transport. In silico analyses and genetic complementation tests showed that entA locates next to an entB ortholog, which codes for a putative protein that contains the isochorismatase lyase domain, which is needed for DHBA biosynthesis from isochorismic acid, but lacks the aryl carrier protein domain, which is needed for tethering activated DHBA and completion of siderophore biosynthesis. Thus, basF, which locates within the acinetobactin gene cluster, is the only fully functional entB ortholog present in ATCC 19606(T). The differences in amino acid length and sequences between these two EntB orthologs and the differences in the genetic context within which the entA and entB genes are found in different A. baumannii isolates indicate that they were acquired from different sources by horizontal transfer. Interestingly, the AYE strain proved to be a natural entA mutant capable of acquiring iron via an uncharacterized siderophore-mediated system, an observation that underlines the ability of different A. baumannii isolates to acquire iron using different systems. Finally, experimental infections using in vivo and ex vivo models demonstrate the role of DHBA and acinetobactin intermediates in the virulence of the ATCC 19606(T) cells, although to a lesser extent when compared to the responses obtained with bacteria producing and using fully matured acinetobactin to acquire iron.
Products encoded in the trans-acting factor (TAF) region are necessary for the biosynthesis of anguibactin and for maximal expression of iron transport and biosynthesis genes in the plasmid-encoded iron-scavenging system of Vibrio anguillarum. Here we identify angB, a locus located in the TAF region, which encodes products essential for anguibactin biosynthesis. We demonstrate that a 287-amino-acid polypeptide, encoded by angB and designated AngB, has an isochorismate lyase activity necessary for the synthesis of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, an anguibactin biosynthesis intermediate. Complementation of various angB mutations provided evidence that an additional, overlapping gene exists at this locus. This second gene, designated angG, also has an essential biosynthetic function. The angG gene directs the expression of three polypeptides when overexpressed in Escherichia coli, all of which are translated in the same frame as AngB. The results of site-directed mutagenesis and in vivo phosphorylation experiments suggest that the carboxy-terminal end of AngB and the AngG polypeptide(s) function as aryl carrier proteins involved in the assembly of the anguibactin molecule. Our results also show that the regulatory functions of the TAF are encoded in a region, TAFr, which is distinct from and independent of the angB and angG genes.
Addition of an elicitor preparation from cell walls of Phytophthora megasperma f. sp. glycinea (Pmg elicitor) to a newly established cell suspension culture of Catharanthus roseus induced extracellular free 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, suggesting its role in pathogen defense. The same substance also accumulated intracellularly in a bound form. Treatment of the crude Pmg elicitor preparation with trypsin abolished elicitor activity, suggesting that the active fraction is proteinaceous. The cells became more sensitive to low but not to elevated elicitor concentrations when they were pretreated with 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic (DCIA) or 5-chlorosalicylic (5CSA) acid for about 1 day before addition of the elicitor. This indicates that the elicitor reception/transduction system becomes improved by these compounds known to be related to systemic acquired resistance against plant pathogens. The newly established cell line initially accumulated also the indole alkaloid ajmalicine, a process enhanced by Pmg elicitor. This potency was lost during subculturing for about 1 year and was also not restored by preincubation with DCIA or 5CSA. In contrast, elicitation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid synthesis was undiminished, suggesting that the Pmg elicitor perception system was still functioning and not the cause for the decline in elicited indole alkaloid production.
Acinetobacter baumannii causes severe infections in compromised patients, who present an iron-limited environment that controls bacterial growth. This pathogen has responded to this restriction by expressing high-affinity iron acquisition systems including that mediated by the siderophore acinetobactin. Gene cloning, functional assays and biochemical tests showed that the A. baumannii genome contains a single functional copy of an entA ortholog. This gene, which is essential for the biosynthesis of the acinetobactin precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), locates outside of the acinetobactin gene cluster, which otherwise harbors all genes needed for acinetobactin biosynthesis, export and transport. In silico analyses and genetic complementation tests showed that entA locates next to an entB ortholog, which codes for a putative protein that contains the isochorismatase lyase domain, which is needed for DHBA biosynthesis from isochorismic acid, but lacks the aryl carrier protein domain, which is needed for tethering activated DHBA and completion of siderophore biosynthesis. Thus, basF, which locates within the acinetobactin gene cluster, is the only fully functional entB ortholog present in ATCC 19606 T . The differences in amino acid length and sequences between these two EntB orthologs and the differences in the genetic context within which the entA and entB genes are found in different A. baumannii isolates indicate that they were acquired from different sources by horizontal transfer. Interestingly, the AYE strain proved to be a natural entA mutant capable of acquiring iron via an uncharacterized siderophore-mediated system, an observation that underlines the ability of different A. baumannii isolates to acquire iron using different systems. Finally, experimental infections using in vivo and ex vivo models demonstrate the role of DHBA and acinetobactin intermediates in the virulence of the ATCC 19606 T cells, although to a lesser extent when compared to the responses obtained with bacteria producing and using fully matured acinetobactin to acquire iron. 
Bacterial pathogens respond to iron limitation imposed by the human host by expressing different high-affinity uptake systems including siderophore-dependent and siderophore-independent systems, as well as systems that remove iron from host compounds, such as hemin, by either direct contact or by producing scavengers known as hemophores [10, 11] . In the case of A. baumannii, experimental data [12, 13, 14, 15] and in silico analyses of fully sequenced and annotated genomes [16, 17] show that different A. baumannii clinical isolates could express different iron uptake systems. Currently, the best-characterized system is that expressed by the ATCC 19606 T type strain, which is based on the production and utilization of acinetobactin [14, 18, 19] . This catechol-hydroxamate siderophore is a non-cyclic derivative of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) linked to threonine and Nhydroxyhistamine [19] . Genetic and functional analyses indicate that the acinetobactin-mediated system is the only high-affinity iron acquisition system expressed by the ATCC 19606 T type strain [14] . The bas, bau and bar genes needed for the production, transport and secretion of acinetobactin, respectively, are located in a 26.5-kb chromosomal region harboring seven operons [14, 18] . However, this locus does not include an entA ortholog coding for a 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxy-benzoate dehydrogenase. This enzyme is involved in the last step of the conversion of chorismate into DHBA, which is essential for the biosynthesis of the catechol moiety of siderophores such as enterobactin [20, 21] . This observation indicates that at least two chromosomal regions are involved in the biosynthesis of acinetobactin in the ATCC T strain; one containing the bas, bau and bar genes and another harboring at least the entA gene. In this report, we present experimental and genomic evidence supporting this hypothesis as well as showing that there are variations not only in nucleotide sequence but also in genetic arrangements among the A. baumannii loci harboring the entA genetic determinant. In addition, we demonstrate that the expression of an active entA gene is needed for the full virulence of the ATCC 19606 T strain when tested using A549 human alveolar epithelial cells and Galleria mellonella caterpillars as experimental infection models. We also report the observation that the A. baumannii AYE strain is a natural entA mutant that acquires iron through a siderophore-mediated system that remains to be characterized.
Abstract Carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning caused by CO exposure at 3000 ppm for 40 min resulted in stimulation of hydroxyl radical ( OH) generation (estimated by measuring 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) production from salicylic acid) in the striatum of free-moving rats, as determined by means of brain microdialysis. Pretreatment with a voltage-dependent Na+ channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (TTX), lowered the basal level of 2,3-DHBA and strongly suppressed the increase in 2,3-DHBA induced by CO poisoning. CO poisoning significantly, though only slightly, increased extracellular glutamate in the striatum, and glutamate (Glu) receptor antagonists, such as MK-801 (dizocilpine) and NBQX, failed to suppress the CO-induced increase in 2,3-DHBA. These findings suggest that CO poisoning may induce Na+ influx via the voltage-dependent Na+ channels, resulting in stimulation of OH generation in rat striatum. This effect may be independent of Glu receptor activation by increased extracellular Glu.
Several congeners of salicylate, previously shown to inhibit the binding of thyroxine in serum and to alter its peripheral metabolism in man, have been found to inhibit thyroid hormone synthesis. The most potent were 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5- dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic (beta-resorcylic) acid, and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic (gamma-resorcylic) acid. In vitro, these compounds inhibit the organic binding of thyroidal iodide. In rats, gamma-resorcylic acid also inhibited both the iodination of monoiodotyrosine to form diiodotyrosine and the coupling of iodotyrosines to form iodothyronines. As might be expected from their effects on thyroxine binding, which suggest that they themselves are bound to serum proteins, the antithyroid activity of these compounds was decreased in vitro by the presence of human serum. This observation led to a study of the effects of serum on the in vitro activity of the traditional antithyroid agents. In protein-free media, propylthiouracil was much more potent than ...
Sixty minutes of cerebral oligaemic hypoxia, induced by bilateral clamping of the carotid arteries (BCCA) in pentobarbital-anaesthetized normotensive rats, induces a late progressive cognitive decline when compared with sham-operated controls. Analysis at BCCA of hippocampal metabolism using microdialysis showed increased release of glutamate, aspartate and gamma-aminobutyric acid, followed by a progressive rise in the formation of hydroxyl free radicals measured as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), their reaction product with salicylate, though only in the re-perfusion phase. In the striatum increased dopamine release occurred during BCCA, whereas glutamate and aspartate showed an increase only during the late re-perfusion phase. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) concentration increased during BCCA and early re-perfusion. An increase in 2,3-DHBA was seen during BCCA, and persisted over 2 h of re-perfusion. Six and 13 months after surgery, though not as early as 3 months, BCCA-treated rats perform worse than sham-operated controls in a water-maze, where decreased swimming speed reveals striatal dysfunction, while hippocampal dysfunction manifested as diminished spatial bias. These results show that cerebral oligaemia, similarly to cerebral ischaemia, leads to increased extracellular dopamine, aspartate and glutamate, and the production of hydroxyl radicals in structures associated with learning and memory processes. Unlike cerebral ischaemia, in cerebral oligaemia the appearance of spatial memory deficits is delayed.
Therefore, an environmentally safer method to control these diseases is highly warranted. According to [7] , some plant extracts contain environmentally safe compound and have the potential to be used as the much needed biopesticides to control plant diseases. One of the plant extracts containing various antifungal compounds is derivatives of C. roseus. Specifically, the plant contains 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,10-dinitrodiftalone, and desmethylomifensine, which have been shown to be effective against various fungi such as Pythium aphanidermatum, Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans, P. chrysogenum, and A. niger [8, 9] . The callus from flower extracts of the plant was also effective against A. niger, C. albicans, and Candida lipolytica [10] . The leaves of C. roseus contain a phenolic such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, an antifungal compound that was active against P. aphanidermatum [8] . Leaves of C. roseus in ethanol extracts 2 International Journal of Analytical Chemistry also showed effective activity against Fusarium moniliforme with inhibition zone of 2.0 mm [11] .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is known to have an inducible uptake system for the enterobacterial siderophore enterobactin. In this work we have examined iron transport mediated by the biosynthetic precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and N-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-l-serine, a breakdown product of enterobactin. Iron complexed with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-L-serine was transported into P. aeruginosa IA1 via a transport system which is energy-dependent and iron-repressible. The rate of transport was not altered by growing the cells in the presence of either pyoverdin or pyochelin, which have been shown previously to induce transport via that system. Growth of the cells in the presence of enterobactin did cause an increase in the rate of transport, indicating that the complex can be transported by the inducible enterobactin uptake system, but also that a separate system must exist. In contrast, transport of iron complexed with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was neither iron-repressible nor strongly energy-dependent, from which we conclude that there must be a novel mode of transport not characteristic of iron-siderophore transport systems.
The equilibrium reactions between 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and Lanthanum(III) ion was investigated in an aqueous medium of 0.1M ionic strength and 25±1 °C by potentiometric and spectrophotometric methods. Formation of complexes of the types ML and ML2H were observed and their stability constants were reported. The ligand showed competitive coordination mode in solution: in acidic medium, 2,3-DHBA showed preference to salicyclate type whereas catecholate type in basic media.
We determined that extracellular potassium ion concentration, [K+]o-induced depolarization, enhances 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation in the rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of *OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Induction of high concentration KCl (70 mM) drastically increased formation of *OH trapped as DHBA by the action of MPP+. When dopamine (DA) was administered to the high KCl-treated animals, a marked elevation of DHBA was observed, compared with MPP+-only-treated animals, that showed a positive linear correlation between DA and *OH formation trapped as DHBA (R2 = 0.979) in the dialysate. When corresponding experiments were performed with iron (II), the same results were obtained: a positive linear correlation between the release of iron (II) and DHBA (R2 = 0.988) in the dialysate. These results suggest that [K+]o-induced depolarization enhances the formation of *OH products of efflux/oxidation due to MPP+.
Abstract Salicylic acid (SA, hydroxybenzoic acid) was used as molecular probe to determine hydroxyl radical ( OH) in aqueous solutions, where microwave (MW) radiation was involved and activated carbon (AC) existed. Rapid reaction of OH with SA produced a stable fluorescence product, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as well as its homologue, 2,5-DHBA, which were determined by HPLC. Dose of AC, air supply, and MW power proved to be key factors influencing OH generation under MW radiation. The rate of OH generation reached 0.036 μmol s −1 , and the OH yield reached 3.2 μmol in 3 min under a given condition. OH is an active species with high oxidative activity and can initiate free radical reactions. Another experiment was carried out to confirm that organic substance may degrade in aqueous solution by the MW assisted catalytic process. Pentachlorophenol (PCP) was used as target. Results showed that nearly 72–100% degradation (corresponding to 40% and 82% TOC removal) was observed in 60 min for two levels of PCP concentrations (500 and 2000 mg L −1 ), which implies that continuous production of OH during MW radiation supports free radical reactions that benefit PCP degradation.
Development and characterization of a simple microfluidic electrochemical flow cell that can be coupled with HPLC to enable dual absorbance/electrochemical detection is described. Coupling absorbance and electrochemical detection increases the information that can be gathered from a single injection, but a second (typically expensive) detection system is required. Here, an inexpensive, customizable microfluidic electrochemical detector is coupled in series with a commercial HPLC/UV system. The microfluidic device is made from poly(dimethylsiloxane) and contains carbon paste electrodes. To demonstrate the utility of this dual-detection system, the reaction products of the radical scavenging agent salicylic acid and hydroxyl radical generated by Fenton chemistry were analyzed. The dual-detection system was used to quantify 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and catechol produced by the addition of H2O2 to filter samples of welding fumes. Measurement recovery was high, with percent recoveries between 97-102%, 92-103%, and 95-103% for 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and catechol, respectively, for control samples. The methods described in this work are simple, reliable, and can inexpensively couple electrochemical detection to HPLC-UV systems.
The present study was examined the effect of fluvastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, on Cu(II)-induced hydroxyl radical generation (OH) in the extracellular fluid of rat myocardium. Rats were anesthetized and sodium salicylate in Ringer's solution (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the myocardium. When Cu(II) was infused through the microdialysis probe, Cu(II) increased in OH formation trapped as 2,3-DHBA in the dialysate. When fluvastatin (100 microM) was administered to Cu(II) (50 microM)-pretreated animals, the levels of 2,3-DHBA at 300 min after administration of fluvastatin significantly decreased. In cumulative dose dependent experiments, three concentrations of Cu(II), 10, 25 and 50 microM, were infused through the microdialysis probe in the rat myocardium. A positive linear correlation between Cu(II) and the formation of 2,3-DHBA (R(2)=0.980) was observed. However, when corresponding experiments were performed with fluvastatin (100 microM) pretreated animals, the level of 2,3-DHBA decreased. These results suggest that blocking LDL oxidation by fluvastatin may attenuate Cu(II)-induced OH formation in the rat heart.
To produce systemic disease, A . salmonicida must overcome non-specific defence mechanisms such as lysozyme, anti-proteases and complement (Ellis, 198 1) . Possession of a surface protein array, the 49 kDa A-layer, by virulent strains of A . salmonicida is thought to enable the bacterium to overcome many of these defence mechanisms (Kay et al., 1981; Munn et al., 1982) . An additional defence mechanism involves the binding of free iron to proteins such as transferrin to create ironAbbreviations: CAS, chrome azurol S; dd, deionized distilled; 2,3-DHBA, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; EDDA, ethylenediamine di(ohydroxyphenylacetic acid); TLC, thin-layer chromatography.
Coupling absorbance and electrochemical detection increases the information that can be gathered from a single injection, but a second (typically expensive) detection system is required. Here, an inexpensive, customizable microfluidic electrochemical detector is coupled in series with a commercial HPLC/UV system. The microfluidic device is made from poly(dimethylsiloxane) and contains carbon paste electrodes. To demonstrate the utility of this dual-detection system, the reaction products of the radical scavenging agent salicylic acid and hydroxyl radical generated by Fenton chemistry were analyzed. The dual-detection system was used to quantify 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 
Abstract A gap flow cell (gap-FC) as a capillary-end electrochemical (EC) detector, incorporating exchangeable screen-printed electrodes, that facilitates adjustment of the gap distance between the capillary outlet and working electrode down to 30 μm was investigated. The analytical performance of the gap-FC was assessed in terms of detector response (current), the efficiency of EC conversion of ferrocyanide, and effective cell volume, as a function of flow rate and gap distance, within a range of 0.1–200 μL min−1 and 30–100 μm, respectively. As a result, an efficiency of EC conversion within the range of ∼1.5–11% (∼3–16 times higher than wall-jet FC), at an effective cell volume of ∼30–75 nL, was achieved. The gap-FC was applied as a liquid chromatography EC detector, coupled with standard and capillary format liquid chromatographs, where the analytical performance of gap-FC was compared with that of a UV detector. With the standard LC, the sensitivity for ascorbic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and pyrocatechol, was greater than with the UV detector, with limits of detection (LODs) one order of magnitude lower for the gap-FC (0.10 μM, 0.09 μM, 0.19 μM, respectively, RSD 1.35–3.8%, n = 9, linearity r2 ∼0.99 for concentration range 1–100 μM). LODs of test electroactive solutes using the gap-FC were ∼2 times lower than LODs reported in existing literature using standard EC detectors, including wall-jet and thin-layer FCs.
Abstract The direct measurement of hydroxyl radicals in vivo is extremely difficult. Therefore, the indirect determination of hydroxyl radicals using salicylate (2-hydroxybenzoate) is widely accepted. Reverse microdialysis with glutamate led to a dose-dependent production of hydroxyl free radicals indicated by the hydroxylation adduct of salicylate, namely 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The local stimulation of hydroxyl free radical formation seems to be suitable to investigate a radical-scavenging property of potential neuroprotective drugs. In vitro experiments using the Fenton reaction may be a helpful tool to assess whether or not a substance is able to act as a radical scavenger in a cell free environment, which is easy to handle and a simple screening method before in vivo experiments were performed. In the present study we present an in vivo approach using local application of glutamate into the striatum and an in vitro screening using the Fenton reaction to induce hydroxyl radical formation. The main goal is to reliable measure hydroxyl free radicals, which are the most reactive oxygen radicals in biology and medicine. Theme: Disorders of the nervous system Topic: Neurotoxicity
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase inAspergillus niger was induced by many substrate analogs including salicylate and gentisate. Catechol, which is the product, induced the enzyme tenfold. The purified enzyme was competitively inhibited by manyortho substituted benzoic acids. The Ki values for salicylate,o-fluoro ando-chloro benzoic acids were 0.12 mM, 0.12 mM, and 0.13 mM respectively; these values were lower than the Km value for the substrate. As the size of the group in theortho position increased, as in the case of bromo- and iodo-derivatives, there was an increase in their Ki values. The C-2 hydroxyl group was essential both for the induction and for interaction with the enzyme. The C-3 hydroxyl group was not necessary for induction or inhibition, but it might be essential for the catalysis.
Abstract In the presence of 5 mM 2,3-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, the monomeric phenolase (MW 36000) of spinach chloroplasts is completely converted to its dimer within 6 hr without significant change in activity. The aldehyde at concentrations higher than 0.25 mM could bring about this conversion after 18 hr treatment. The association of the two monomers becomes tighter with increasing concentration of the aldehyde. The dimer gave rise to a higher MW protein after freezing briefly. Several mono- and dihydroxybenzaldehydes, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and o -vanillin did not produce the dimer.
Four new cocrystals of pharmaceutically active N-donor compounds, pyrazinamide (P) and nicotinamide (N), with a series of dihydroxybenzoic acids, i.e., 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (23DHB), 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (24DHB), and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (26DHB), were synthesized and structurally evaluated in order to study basic recognition patterns and crystal lattice energetic features. The literature-reported structures of this kind, i.e., N:24DHB, N:25DHB and N:26DHB (the last two were crystallized and remeasured by us at 100 K) and P:25DHB, completed the series. The analysis of interaction networks in the examined cocrystals reflects the relative affinity of the COOH and OH groups toward N-donor compounds. A major factor that governs the primary synthon formation is the basic character of the proton acceptors in the heterocyclic compounds. In a crystal lattice, the more rigid pyrazinamide tends to form its primary structural motifs, and hence is less influenced by the molecular surrounding than nicotin...
The interaction of oxovanadium(IV) with ligands containing phenolate and carboxylate donors, such as salicylic acid, catechol, 2,x-dihydroxybenzoic acids (x= 3–6), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid has been studied in aqueous solution by means of potentiometric and spectroscopic (electronic absorption, e.s.r., and electron nuclear double resonance) techniques. Over the low pH range the salicyclic acid-type mode of co-ordination predominates, while the catechol type is preferred in basic media. A mixture of these donor sets is observed in the ternary oxovanadium(IV)–salicylic acid-catechol and binary oxovanadium(IV)-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid systems. Besides monomeric complexes, dinuclear species are also formed by the potentially ambidentate dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives over the intermediate pH range. In the latter complexes both CO2– and O– groups take part in metal bridging.
The ability to synthesize and uptake the Yersinia siderophore yersiniabactin is a hallmark of the highly pathogenic, mouse-lethal species Yersinia pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis, and Y. enterocolitica 1B. We have identified four genes, irp1, irp3, irp4, and irp5, on a 13-kb chromosomal DNA fragment of Y. enterocolitica O8, WA-314. These genes constitute the yersiniabactin biosynthetic gene cluster together with the previously defined irp2. The irp1 gene consists of 9,486 bp capable of encoding a 3,161-amino-acid high-molecular-weight protein 1 (HMWP1) polypeptide with a predicted mass of 384.6 kDa. The first 3,000 bp of irp1 show similarity to the corresponding regions of the polyketide synthase genes of Bacillus subtilis and Streptomyces antibioticus. The remaining part of irp1 is most similar to irp2, encoding HMWP2, which might be the reason for immunological cross-reactivity of the two polypeptides. Irp4 was found to have 41.7% similarity to thioesterase-like protein of the anguibactin biosynthetic genes of Vibrio anguillarum. Irp5 shows 41% similarity to EntE, the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid-activating enzyme utilized in enterobactin synthesis of Escherichia coli. Irp4 and Irp5 are nearly identical to YbtT and YbtE, recently identified in Y. pestis. irp3 has no similarity to any known gene. Inactivation of either irp1 or irp2 abrogates yersiniabactin synthesis. Mutations in irp1 or fyuA (encoding yersiniabactin/pesticin receptor) result in downregulation of irp2 that can be upregulated by the addition of yersiniabactin. A FyuA-green fluorescent protein translational fusion was downregulated in an irp1 mutant. Upregulation was achieved by addition of yersiniabactin but not desferal, pesticin, or pyochelin, which indicates high specificity of the FyuA receptor and autoregulation of genes involved in synthesis and uptake of yersiniabactin.
Fenton reaction, which involves hydrogen peroxide and ferrous ion, has been proposed as an efficient option for effluent treatment. In this work, the treatment of a pulp bleaching effluent using Fenton-type reactions assisted by either, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (CAT), were studied. The treatment was evaluated by the removal of adsorbable organochloride compounds (AOX) and toxicity. Furthermore, the degradation of 2-chlorophenol and 4-chlorophenol in aqueous solutions were carried out, separately. Increase in oxidative activities of Fenton-type reactions mediated by the dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs) were found. These activities enhancement were related with a higher production of activated species by Fe/DHBs/H 2 O 2 , as indicted by chemiluminesce. The large decrease in AOX values and toxicity of the treated bleaching effluent by DHBs at pH 4.0 and 7.0 showed that 2,3-DHBA enhanced the activity of the Fenton reaction. The use of 3,4-DHBA and CAT resulted in loss of efficiencies of Fenton reaction to effluent treatment but not to pure chlorophenol solutions. At pH 7.0 lower efficiencies than those at pH 4.0 were achieved.
Previous studies showed that deferoxamine inhibits malaria by interacting with a labile iron pool within parasitized erythrocytes. Consequently, we studied the antimalarial properties of other iron-chelating drugs such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) and its methyl ester as well as two polyanionic amines, N.N'-bis (o-hydroxybenzyl) ethylenediamine-N,N'-diacetic acid (HBED) and N,N'-ethylenebis(o-hydroxyphenylglycine) (EHPG) in rats infected with Plasmodium berghei. All drugs were delivered by subcutaneous injection at 8-hour intervals, 40 mg per animal per day. All animals receiving N,N'-ethylenebis(o-hydroxyphenylglycine) died of drug toxicity between days 6 and 11. Peak parasitemia on day 11 of infection was 32.8% in control animals; 25.3% with methyl 2,3-DHB, 15.5% with 2,3-DHB, 8.0% with deferoxamine, and 0.9% with HBED. Subsequent studies of HBED and deferoxamine in P falciparum cultures in human erythrocytes showed a marked suppression of parasite counts by both drugs at concentrations of greater than 5 mumol/L. At all concentrations tested, HBED was four to five times more effective than deferoxamine in suppressing parasite counts. The superior antimalarial activity of HBED is attributed to its increased lipophilicity and higher affinity to ferric iron. These findings indicate that selective iron deprivation by interaction with an intracellular chelator may represent a novel approach to antimalarial drug development, and that systematic screening of available iron-chelating drugs may result in identification of potentially useful antimalarial compounds.
A soil Pseudomonas sp. grew with 1-naphthol as sole organic carbon source and produced a 3,4-dihydro-dihydroxy-1(2H)-naphthalenone as the main early intermediary metabolite. Washed 1-naphthol-grown organisms oxidized naphthalene, 1- or 2-naphthol, salicylic acid and, to some extent, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
The ability to synthesize and uptake the Yersinia siderophore yersiniabactin is a hallmark of the highly pathogenic, mouse-lethal species Yersinia pestis, Y. pseudotuberculosis, and Y. enterocolitica 1B. We have identified four genes, irp1, irp3, irp4, and irp5, on a 13-kb chromosomal DNA fragment of Y. enterocolitica O8, WA-314. These genes constitute the yersiniabactin biosynthetic gene cluster together with the previously defined irp2. The irp1 gene consists of 9,486 bp capable of encoding a 3,161-amino-acid high-molecular-weight protein 1 (HMWP1) polypeptide with a predicted mass of 384.6 kDa. The first 3,000 bp of irp1 show similarity to the corresponding regions of the polyketide synthase genes of Bacillus subtilis and Streptomyces antibioticus. The remaining part of irp1 is most similar to irp2, encoding HMWP2, which might be the reason for immunological cross-reactivity of the two polypeptides. Irp4 was found to have 41.7% similarity to thioesterase-like protein of the anguibactin biosynthetic genes of Vibrio anguillarum. Irp5 shows 41% similarity to EntE, the 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid-activating enzyme utilized in enterobactin synthesis of Escherichia coli. Irp4 and Irp5 are nearly identical to YbtT and YbtE, recently identified in Y. pestis. irp3 has no similarity to any known gene. Inactivation of either irp1 or irp2 abrogates yersiniabactin synthesis. Mutations in irp1 or fyuA (encoding yersiniabactin/ pesticin receptor) result in downregulation of irp2 that can be upregulated by the addition of yersiniabactin. A FyuA-green fluorescent protein translational fusion was downregulated in an irp1 mutant. Upregulation was achieved by addition of yersiniabactin but not desferal, pesticin, or pyochelin, which indicates high specificity of the FyuA receptor and autoregulation of genes involved in synthesis and uptake of yersiniabactin.
The reaction between chromium(III) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) takes place in at least three stages, involving various intermediates. The ligand (2,3-DHBA)-to-chromium(III) ratio in the final product of the reaction is 1 : 1. The first stage is suggested to be the reaction of with the ligand in weak acidic aqueous solutions that follows an mechanism. The second and third stages do not depend on the concentrations of chromium(III), and their activation parameters are kJ, , kJ, and . These two stages are proposed to proceed via associative mechanisms. The positive value of can be explained by the opening of a four-membered ring (positive entropy change) and the breaking of a hydrogen bond (positive entropy change) at the associative step of the replacement of the carboxyl group by the hydroxyl group at the chromium(III) center (negative entropy change in associative mechanisms). The reactions are accompanied by proton release, as shown by the pH decrease.
Previous studies showed that deferoxamine inhibits malaria by interacting with a labile iron pool within parasitized erythrocytes. Consequently, we studied the antimalarial properties of other iron- chelating drugs such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) and its methyl ester as well as two polyanionic amines, N.N′-bis (o- hydroxybenzyl) ethylenediamine-N,N′-diacetic acid (HBED) and N,N′- ethylenebis(o-hydroxyphenylglycine) (EHPG) in rats infected with Plasmodium berghei. All drugs were delivered by subcutaneous injection at 8-hour intervals, 40 mg per animal per day. All animals receiving N,N′-ethylenebis(o-hydroxyphenylglycine) died of drug toxicity between days 6 and 11. Peak parasitemia on day 11 of infection was 32.8% in control animals; 25.3% with methyl 2,3-DHB, 15.5% with 2,3-DHB, 8.0% with deferoxamine, and 0.9% with HBED. Subsequent studies of HBED and deferoxamine in P falciparum cultures in human erythrocytes showed a marked suppression of parasite counts by both drugs at concentrations of greater than 5 mumol/L. At all concentrations tested, HBED was four to five times more effective than deferoxamine in suppressing parasite counts. The superior antimalarial activity of HBED is attributed to its increased lipophilicity and higher affinity to ferric iron. These findings indicate that selective iron deprivation by interaction with an intracellular chelator may represent a novel approach to antimalarial drug development, and that systematic screening of available iron-chelating drugs may result in identification of potentially useful antimalarial compounds.
Sodium salicylate was infused through a microdialysis probe placed in the striatum of anesthetized rats in order to assay the formation of hydroxyl radical (.OH) in the extracellular fluid in vivo. In addition to causing sustained dopamine relese, intrastriatal infusion of the 2′-methyl analog of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropridine (2′CH3-MPTP) increased the formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), the nonenzymatic. OH adduct of salicylate in the brain dialysate. Inhibition of monoamine oxidase (MAO) by clorgyline and deprenyl completely blocked the formation of 2,3-DHBA and the sustained dopamine overflow induced by 2′-CH3-MPTP. The results indicate that the enhanced formation of cytotoxic. OH by 2′-CH3-MPTP is suppressed by MAO inhibitors. These data support the hypothesis that the protective effect of MAO inhibitors on the neurotoxicity induced by MPTP analogues may be due not only to the inhibition of MPTP metabolism by MAO but also the blockade of the formation of OH free radicals. An enhanced generation of cytotoxic. OH free radicals in the striatum which in turn leads to oxidant damage may be relevant to the development of parkinsonism-like changes in animals produced by MPTP analogues. © Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Abstract A calorimetric study of the ionization process of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was performed in water—DMSO mixtures ranging from pure water up to a 0.8 mole fraction of DMSO. A comparison of the ionization processes of the 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid with the 2- and 3-monohydroxy substituted benzoic acids was also presented.
Abstract The interaction of copper(II) with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB) in aqueous solution has been investigated by means of potcntiometric and spectroscopic (EPR and electronic absorption) measurements. The complex formation equilibria in the Cu(II)-2,3-DHB system are distinctly different from those already observed with analogous ligands such as 3,4-DHB and 2,x-DHB (x α 4, 5 and 6) which form catechol- and salicylic-like complexes, respectively. The position of the three binding sites allows 2,3-DHB to exhibit both the salicylic and catechol coordination types. Besides monomeric species, oligonuclear complexes are formed in which the carboxylate groups are responsible for the metal bridging.
The reaction between chromium(III) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) takes place in at least three stages, involving various intermediates. The ligand (2,3-DHBA)-to-chromium(III) ratio in the final product of the reaction is 1 : 1. can be explained by the opening of a four-membered ring (positive entropy change) and the breaking of a hydrogen bond (positive entropy change) at the associative step of the replacement of the carboxyl group by the hydroxyl group at the chromium(III) center (negative entropy change in associative mechanisms). The reactions are accompanied by proton release, as shown by the pH decrease.
Pathogens have developed many strategies to cope with iron limitation caused by plants and mammals in order to restrict their unwanted growth in them. One of the best-known methods (strategies) is through the synthesis of small molecules that can act as iron chelators known as siderophores [1] . 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) is a monocatechol siderophore. This ligand is a triprotic acid H 3 L, and the values of K 1 and K 2 refer to the protonation constants of the two hydroxylate groups and K 3 refers to that of the carboxyl group. At 25
Activities of conventional antifungal agents, fludioxonil, strobilurin and antimycin A, which target the oxidative and osmotic stress response systems, were elevated by coapplication of certain benzo analogs (aldehydes and acids). Fungal tolerance to 2,3-dihydroxybenzaldehyde or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was found to rely upon mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (SOD2) or glutathione reductase (GLR1), genes regulated by the HOG1 signaling pathway, respectively. Thus, certain benzo analogs can be effective at targeting cellular oxidative stress response systems. The ability of these compounds to chemosensitize fungi for improved control with conventional antifungal agents is discussed.
The present study was examined whether or not 2-bromoethyamine, a semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO, EC; 1.4.3.6) inhibitor, would increase an active dopaminergic neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+))-induced hydroxyl radical ((*)OH) generation in the rat striatum. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate (0.5 mM or 0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of (*)OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Infusion of 2-bromoethylamine (100 microM or 100 pmol/microl/min) into the striatum drastically increased the formation of (*)OH products, trapped as DHBA by the action of MPP(+). Further, I studied the effect of allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, an 2-bromoethylamine and MPP(+)-induced (*)OH generation. Allopurinol (10 microM or 10 pmol/microl/min) significantly suppressed 2-bromoethyamine and MPP(+)-induced (*)OH. These results suggest that a definite mechanism is not clear at the moment, after inhibition of tissue-bound and/or blood plasma SSAO activity, with consequent increases in bioactive amine levels, enhances the formation of (*)OH products of efflux/oxidation due to MPP(+).
The biosynthetic gene cluster of the myxochelin-type iron chelator was cloned from Stigmatella aurantiaca Sg a15 and characterized. This catecholate siderophore was only known from two other myxobacteria. The biosynthetic genes of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid are located in the cluster (mxcC-mxcF). Two molecules of 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoic acid are activated and condensed with lysine in a unique way by a protein homologous to nonribosomal peptide synthetases (MxcG). Inactivation of mxcG, which encodes an adenylation domain for lysine, results in a myxochelin negative mutant unable to grow under iron-limiting conditions. Growth could be restored by adding Fe3+, myxochelin A or B to the medium. Inactivation of mxcD leads to the same phenotype. A new type of reductive release from nonribosomal peptide synthetases of the 2, 3-dihydroxybenzoic acid bis-amide of lysine from MxcG, catalyzed by a protein domain with homology to NAD(P) binding sites, is discussed. The product of a gene, encoding a protein similar to glutamate-1-semialdehyde 2,1-aminomutases (mxcL), is assumed to transaminate the aldehyde that is proposed as an intermediate. Further genes encoding proteins homologous to typical iron utilization and iron uptake polypeptides are reported.
The Gram-negative bacterium Acinetobacter calcoaceticus was examined for production of siderophores and iron-repressible outer membrane proteins following growth in iron-restricted media. The iron chelator, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was identified in the culture supernatant by 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS). A group of outer membrane proteins between 80 and 85 kDa were induced under iron restriction.
Hydroxylation of salicylate and D-phenylalanine was measured to test the usefulness of these compounds for hydroxyl radical (HO(•)) detection in chemical and biological systems. When HO(•) were produced by the photolytic decomposition of hydrogen peroxide, nearly equal amounts of 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) were produced from salicylate, with catechol as a minor product. In the photolytic reaction, nearly equal concentrations of p-,m-, and o-tyrosine were formed from D-phenylalanine. When salicylate or D-phenylalanine was present with Fenton reagents or in iron(II) autoxidation systems, the relative proportions of hydroxylated products were similar to those observed after photolysis, although less total products were usually detected. In contrast, when similar experiments were conducted with isolated hepatic microsomes and perfused livers, 2,5-DHBA was the primary product from salicylate, and p-tyrosine was the major product from D-phenylalanine. Cytochrome P-450 enzymes can hydroxylate salicylate to produce 2,5-DHBA, and it is likely that phenylalanine hydroxylase produces most of the p-tyrosine detected in hepatic tissues. Thus, although both salicylate and D-phenylalanine are useful probes for hydroxyl radical formation in chemical systems, hydroxylated products formed from enzymatic reactions complicate interpretation of data from both compounds in vivo.
EDTA-chelated ferrous chloride (Fe(2+)-EDTA) mixed with ascorbic acid (VC) was shown in vitro to produce 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), one of the hydroxyl radical (.OH) derivatives formed from reaction with 1 mM salicylic acid. The .OH generating system of Fe(2+)-EDTA (5, 25 and 50 microM) mixed with VC (50, 250 and 500 microM) was perfused for 15 min to the isolated rat hearts to characterize the effect of exogenous .OH on cardiac function, metabolism, and structure. A dose-effect relationship was observed between .OH dosage and ventricular dysfunction, increase in coronary flow, structural damage, decrease in ATP and increase in lipid peroxidation. Catalase (CAT, 500 U/ml) and deferoxamine (DFX, 10 mM) significantly (P < 0.05) reduced .OH formation in vitro, but superoxide dismutase (SOD, 100 U/ml) did not. When these agents were given to the heart perfused with 50 microM Fe(2+)-EDTA plus 500 microM VC, SOD failed to modify any myocardial alterations whereas CAT and DFX completely reversed them. Addition of 500 microM hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to the 50 microM Fe(2+)-EDTA plus 500 microM VC further caused a 14-fold increase in .OH generation. Addition of H2O2 (500 microM) to the .OH generating mixture induced more conspicuous myocardial changes compared with the mixture without H2O2 addition, but the extent of those changes other than increase in coronary flow was less than that caused by perfusion with 500 microM H2O2 alone. These results further suggest that the cardiac changes induced by the .OH generating system are due to the combined effects of .OH and H2O2 which is formed as an intermediate product.
Article history The present study intended to isolate phenolic compounds from the leaf of Cochlospermum religiosum by using 70% acetone and poly vinyl pyrrolidane; and characterized by UV-visible spectrometry, high performance liquid chromatography/ electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. The results showed that totally 87 phenolic compounds were obtained at both positive and negative ion modes of LCMS. Among the isolated phenols, 11 phenolic compounds have been identified based on their retention time and m/z values namely, Gallic acid, 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, Ascorbic acid, Quercetin, Cynarine, 1,2,3,4,6-Pentagalloyl glucose, Syringaldehyde, Thymol, Ellagic acid, Isorhamnetin and Benzoic acid. This study illustrates the rich array of phenolic compounds of leaves of Cochlospermum religiosum could be utility as health beneficial bioactive compounds.
Increasing antibiotic resistance has compelled the development of novel antibiotics and adjuvant therapies that enhance the efficacy of existing antibiotics. Iron plays a critical role in bacterial infections, yet the use of iron chelators as adjuvant therapy with antibiotics has yielded highly variable outcomes. Multivalent polymeric materials offer an alternative approach to bind and sequester iron via high avidity interactions. Here, a biomimetic iron-sequestering polymer (PAI-DHBA) was synthesized by modifying side chains of cross-linked polyallylamine (cPAI) with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). PAI-DHBA polymer gels with various DHBA contents showed high iron affinity indices and high selectivity for iron. The polymers showed mild antibiotic properties when used to treat established bacterial cultures. Pretreating culture media with PAI-DHBA polymer, however, removed all detectable iron from media and effectively inhibited the growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In addition, bacterial growth was more susceptible to antibiotics combined with PAI-DHBA. Multivalent polymers that bind and sequester iron, such as PAI-DHBA, offer a promising early intervention or adjuvant to antibiotics.
The antioxidants sodium benzoate and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid reduced the inflammatory response in experimental phacoanaphylactic endophthalmitis. The 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid was by far the more effective antiphlogistic agent. The molecular mechanisms that may have contributed to the observed difference in antiphlogistic activity are discussed.
The thermal behavior, phase stability, indicative stability and intrinsic dissolution rates of a series of cocrystals and cocrystal hydrates derived from the pharmaceutically active ingredient acetazolamide (ACZ) and 2-aminobenzamide (2ABAM), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (23DHBA), 2-hydroxybenzamide (2HBAM), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4HBA), nicotinamide (NAM) and picolinamide (PAM) as cocrystal formers have been evaluated. Upon heating in an inert atmosphere most of the cocrystals tested demonstrated first the elimination of the crystal former, followed by ACZ degradation. Only in cocrystals with NAM was melting observed. Under controlled temperature and relative humidity conditions all cocrystals tested were stable. However, phase stability tests in a medium simulating physiological conditions (HCl 0.01N, pH2.0) indicated that cocrystals ACZ-NAM-H2O and ACZ-PAM gradually transform into ACZ. All cocrystals examined gave enhanced intrinsic dissolution rates when compared to pure ACZ and the largest dissolution rate constants were measured for the cocrystals that transformed in the phase stability test (approximate two-fold increase of the dissolution rate constants). The series of cocrystals examined herein exhibits an inverse correlation between the intrinsic dissolution rates and the melting/decomposition temperatures as well as the dimension of the hydrogen-bonded ACZ aggregates found in the corresponding crystal structure, indicating that solid-state stability is the major influence on dissolution performance.
A capillary gas chromatographic (GC) method for the assay of salicylic acid (1) and related compounds in plant cell cultures is described. The gas chromatograms were validated qualitatively by means of GC-mass spectrometry. The detection limits of 1 (50 ng) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2; 125 ng), obtained in the GC split injection mode, could be lowered 25- to 50-fold by using the splitless mode. Derivatization of these compounds with diazomethane gave the methyl esters as major derivatization products in yields of 98% and 94%, respectively. The extraction recoveries of 1 and 2 from lyophilized Catharanthus roseuscells were more than 95%, using o-anisic acid as internal standard, and tetrahydrofuran was found to be a suitable extraction solvent. © 1998 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The present study examined whether bisphenol A enhanced 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced hydroxyl radical (*OH) generation in rat striatum using microdialysis technique. These elevations were detected by increases in non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels. Bisphenol A significantly enhanced MPP+-induced.OH generation. Further, the effect of diltiazem, a L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist, on bisphenol A (10 microM) and MPP+ (5 mM)-induced.OH generation were studied. Ddiltiazem (100 microM) significantly suppressed bisphenol A and MPP+-induced.OH generation. The results indicate bisphenol A augmented *OH generation, and diltiazem may have preventive effect on bisphenol A and MPP+-induced.OH generation.
Abstract An intermediate in the conversion of chorismate into 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate has been formed using cell-free extracts of Aerobacter aerogenes . The new compound has been isolated and identified as 5,6-dihydroxycyclohexa-1,3-diene-1-carboxylic acid. The trivial name 2,3-dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is suggested for this compound. Nuclear magnetic resonance, infrared, ultraviolet and mass spectra, together with some other properties of the new intermediate are described. 2,3-Dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is dehydrated by heating under acid or alkaline conditions to give mainly 3-hydroxybenzoic acid together with some salicylic acid.
The Escherichia coli enterobactin synthetic cluster is composed of six proteins, EntA–EntF, that form the enterobactin molecule from three serine molecules and three molecules of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). EntC, EntB and EntA catalyze the three-step synthesis of DHB from chorismate. EntA is a member of the short-chain oxidoreductase (SCOR) family of proteins and catalyzes the final step in DHB synthesis, the NAD+-dependent oxidation of 2,3-­dihydro-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to DHB. The structure of EntA has been determined by multi-wavelength anomalous dispersion methods. Here, the 2.0 A crystal structure of EntA in the unliganded form is presented. Analysis of the structure in light of recent structural and bioinformatic analysis of other members of the SCOR family provides insight into the residues involved in cofactor and substrate binding.
The plant hormone salicylic acid (SA) plays critical roles in plant defense, stress responses, and senescence. Although SA biosynthesis is well understood, the pathways by which SA is catabolized remain elusive. Here we report the identification and characterization of an SA 3-hydroxylase (S3H) involved in SA catabolism during leaf senescence. S3H is associated with senescence and is inducible by SA and is thus a key part of a negative feedback regulation system of SA levels during senescence. The enzyme converts SA (with a Km of 58.29 µM) to both 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA in vitro but only 2,3-DHBA in vivo. The s3h knockout mutants fail to produce 2,3-DHBA sugar conjugates, accumulate very high levels of SA and its sugar conjugates, and exhibit a precocious senescence phenotype. Conversely, the gain-of-function lines contain high levels of 2,3-DHBA sugar conjugates and extremely low levels of SA and its sugar conjugates and display a significantly extended leaf longevity. This research reveals an elegant SA catabolic mechanism by which plants regulate SA levels by converting it to 2,3-DHBA to prevent SA overaccumulation. The research also provides strong molecular genetic evidence for an important role of SA in regulating the onset and rate of leaf senescence.
Salicylic acid (SA) is probably one of the best-known natural products, because of its acetyl-derivative, the widely used drug, aspirin. The application of exogenous SA or its acetyl-derivative induces pathogenesis-related genes and causes partial resistance to plant diseases. Thus, the biosynthesis of SA became a hot topic because of its important signaling role in plant defence against pathogens. SA also has a number of other functions in plants, such as stimulation of flowering in Lemnaceae, inhibition of the biosynthesis of the plant hormone ethylene, regulation of stomata1 closure and root ion uptake. Moreover, endogenous SA regulates heat production in the inflorescences of Arum lilies. However, despite the growing interest in SA as a natural signal in systemic acquired resistance in plants, the complete biosynthetic pathway has still not yet been resolved. Besides the phenylpropanoid pathway, which includes trans-cinnamic acid (CA) as a putative intermediate, SA can also be formed along a completely different biosynthetic pathway, via isochorismate, which is directly derived from chorismate. This chapter reviews both pathways. The identified intermediates and the enzymes involved have been described. The biosynthesis of the closely related 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) is also discussed. This pathway shares the first enzyme with the SA-biosynthesis from chorismate, and seems to occur in both plants and microorganisms.
1. In the present study, we investigated the effect of 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one (edaravone), a free radical scavenger, on myocardial infarct (MI) size and cardiac function in an in vivo model of MI in rabbits. We further investigated the contribution of hydroxyl radicals, superoxide and nitric oxide (NO) to its effects. 2. Anaesthetized open-chest Japanese white male rabbits were subjected to 30 min coronary occlusion and 48 h reperfusion. The control group (n = 10) was injected with saline 10 min before reperfusion. The edaravone group (n = 10) was injected with a bolus of 3 mg/kg edaravone 10 min before reperfusion. The edaravone + N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) group (n = 5) was given 10 mg/kg, i.v., L-NAME 10 min before the administration of 3 mg/kg edaravone. The L-NAME group (n = 5) was given 10 mg/kg, i.v., L-NAME 20 min before reperfusion. Infarct size was measured using the triphenyl tetrazolium chloride method and is expressed as a percentage of area at risk. Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography 14 days after infarction. 3. In another series of experiments, rabbits were subjected to 30 min coronary occlusion and 30 min reperfusion and myocardial interstitial 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA levels, indicators of hydroxyl radical, were measured using a microdialysis technique. 4. Infarct size in the edaravone group was significantly reduced compared with that in the control group (27.4 +/- 6.8 vs 43.4 +/- 6.8%, respectively; P < 0.05). The edaravone-induced reduction of infarct size was abolished by pretreatment with L-NAME. Myocardial interstitial levels of 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA increased 20 and 30 min after ischaemia and peaked at 10 min reperfusion in the control group. Edaravone significantly inhibited the increase in 2,3-DHBA and 2,5-DHBA levels seen during reperfusion. Dihydroethidium staining showing in situ detection of superoxide was less intense in ischaemic myocardium in the edaravone-treated group compared with the control group. Edaravone improved cardiac function and left ventricular remodelling 14 days after infarction. 5. In conclusion, edaravone significantly reduces MI size and improves cardiac function and LV remodelling by decreasing hydroxyl radicals and superoxide in the myocardium and increasing the production of NO during reperfusion in rabbits.
The hydrolysis of OO′-benzylidene-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is considerably faster than that of OO′-benzylidene-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and OO′-benzylidenecatechol. The pH-rate profile is of the form: kobs=k1/(1 +Ka/10–pH). The high rate is associated with the k1-term which probably arises from intramolecular general-acid catalysis. This kinetic parameters of this reaction are compared with those for the formally analogous inter-molecularly general-acid catalysed hydrolysis of benzylidenecatechol. OO′-Benzylidene-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is not intramolecularly hydrogen bonded in dilute solutions in carbon tetrachloride.
The present study was conducted to assess in rats the comparative effects of a number of chelating agents on the urinary excretion and tissue distribution of A1. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received a single intraperitoneal dose of aluminium (A1) nitrate nonahydrate (0.24 mmol/kg). Ten min. after A1 injection 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, picolinic acid, methylmalonic acid, ethylenediamine-di(o-hydroxyphenylacetic) acid, 1-benzyl-2-methyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-(p-methylbenzyl)-2-methyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-(p-methoxy-benzyl)-2-methyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-(p-chlorobenzyl)-2-methyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-benzyl-2-ethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-(p-methyl-benzyl)-2-ethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-[3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-oxopyridyl]-2-ethanesulfonic acid and 1-benzyl-(4-carboxylic acid)-3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-oxopyridine were given by gavage at 1.79 mmol/kg. A control group received similar volumes of distilled water. An additional group of rats received a subcutaneous injection of desferrioxamine at 1.79 mmol/ kg. Urine samples were collected daily for three consecutive days and the animals were killed after this period. Samples of brain, bone, liver, kidney and spleen were collected. Although desferrioxamine, 1,2-dimethyl-3-hydroxypirid-4-one, 1-(p-methylbenzyl)-2-methyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-(p-methoxybenzyl)-2-methyl-3- hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-(p-methylbenzyl)-2-ethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one, 1-[3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-oxopyridyl]-2-ethanesulfonic acid and 1-benzyl-(4-carboxylic acid)-3-hydroxy-2-methyl-4-osopyridine significantly enhanced the total excretion of A1 into urine, only treatment with 1-(p-chlorobenzyl)-2-methyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one and 1-benzyl-2-ethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one significantly reduced A1 concentrations in all analyzed tissues. No beneficial effects of the remaining chelators on Al mobilization were observed. Further studies on the effects of some 3-hydoxrypyrid-4-ones on A1 removal can be of interest for the treatment of A1 accumulation and toxicity.
Abstract ::: Many isolates of the Aeromonas species produce amonabactin, a phenolate siderophore containing 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHB). An amonabactin biosynthetic gene (amoA) was identified (in a Sau3A1 gene library of Aeromonas hydrophila 495A2 chromosomal DNA) by its complementation of the requirement of Escherichia coli SAB11 for exogenous 2,3-DHB to support siderophore (enterobactin) synthesis. The gene amoA was subcloned as a SalI-HindIII 3.4-kb DNA fragment into pSUP202, and the complete nucleotide sequence of amoA was determined. A putative iron-regulatory sequence resembling the Fur repressor protein-binding site overlapped a possible promoter region. A translational reading frame, beginning with valine and encoding 396 amino acids, was open for 1,188 bp. The C-terminal portion of the deduced amino acid sequence showed 58% identity and 79% similarity with the E. coli EntC protein (isochorismate synthetase), the first enzyme in the E. coli 2,3-DHB biosynthetic pathway, suggesting that amoA probably encodes a step in 2,3-DHB biosynthesis and is the A. hydrophila equivalent of the E. coli entC gene. An isogenic amonabactin-negative mutant, A. hydrophila SB22, was isolated after marker exchange mutagenesis with Tn5-inactivated amoA (amoA::Tn5). The mutant excreted neither 2,3-DHB nor amonabactin, was more sensitive than the wild-type to growth inhibition by iron restriction, and used amonabactin to overcome iron starvation.
A significant gap exists between protein engineering and enzymes used for the biosynthesis of natural products, largely because there is a paucity of strategies that rapidly detect active-site phenotypes of the enzymes with desired activities. Herein, we describe a proof-of-concept study of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) system for the adenylation (A) domains in nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) using a combination of active site-directed probes coupled to a 5'-O-N-(aminoacyl)sulfamoyladenosine scaffold with a biotin functionality that immobilizes probe molecules onto a streptavidin-coated solid support. The recombinant NRPSs have a C-terminal His-tag motif that is targeted by an anti-6×His mouse antibody as the primary antibody and a horseradish peroxidase-linked goat antimouse antibody as the secondary antibody. These probes can selectively capture the cognate A domains by ligand-directed targeting. In addition, the ELISA technique detected A domains in the crude cell-free homogenates from the Escherichia coli expression systems. When coupled with a chromogenic substrate, the antibody-based ELISA technique can visualize probe-protein binding interactions, which provides accurate readouts of the A-domain functions in NRPS enzymes. To assess the ELISA-based engineering of the A domains of NRPSs, we reprogramed 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB)-activating enzyme EntE toward salicylic acid (Sal)-activating enzymes and investigated a correlation between binding properties for probe molecules and enzyme catalysts. We generated a mutant of EntE that displayed negligible loss in the kcat/Km value with the noncognate substrate Sal and a corresponding 48-fold decrease in the kcat/Km value with the cognate substrate DHB. The resulting 26-fold switch in substrate specificity was achieved by the replacement of a Ser residue in the active site of EntE with a Cys toward the nonribosomal codes of Sal-activating enzymes. Bringing a laboratory ELISA technique and adenylating enzymes together using a combination of active site-directed probes for the A domains in NRPSs should accelerate both the functional characterization and manipulation of the A domains in NRPSs.
Phosphatidylinositol turnover is considered to be implicated in the cellular response to mitogens1) and transformation by oncogenes such as ras2\ src3), erbB*\ fms and /^5). Phosphatidylinositol kinase is one of the key regulatory enzymes involved in the pathway of phosphatidylinositol turnover. Therefore, we are sceening inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol kinase from microorganisms to study the biochemical role of the enzyme. Wehave developed a new assay system for phosphatidylinositol kinase using a small silica gel column, and have Recently found that orobol and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid from microorganisms inhibit the enzyme6). In the course of this screening program, we have isolated toyocamycin from a culture nitrate of a Streptomyces strain. Toyocamycinis knownas an antifungal antibiotic7). This paper reports inhibition of phosphatidylinositol kinase by toyocamycin and other related nucleoside antibiotics. In addition, we have studied effects of toyocamycin, orobol and 2,3-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, a more effective analogue of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, on in situ phosphatidylinositol turnover.
Microorganisms produce small molecules known as siderophores to scavenge iron from the environment. Insight into iron acquisition in myxobacteria has been provided recently by the sequencing of the gene cluster for the catecholate myxochelins A and B, from the myxobacterium Stigmatella aurantiaca Sg a15. The gene cluster contains enzymes (MxcCDEF) for assembly of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), an amino transferase, MxcL, and a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) subunit, MxcG. In the proposed pathway to the myxochelins, two molecules of DHBA are condensed with the two amino groups of lysine, which is itself tethered to the peptidyl carrier protein domain (PCP) of MxcG. The resulting thioester is then reduced by the NADPH-dependent reductase (Red) domain of MxcG to generate an aldehyde intermediate; subsequent Red-catalyzed reduction yields myxochelin A, while transamination by MxcL produces myxochelin B. Although myxochelin A has been obtained successfully in vitro, it has not been possible to date ...
During postischemic reperfusion, free radicals are produced and have deleterious effects in isolated rat hearts. We investigated whether melatonin (MEL) reduces the production of hydroxyl radical (*OH) in the effluent and aids in recovery of left ventricular (LV) function. Hearts were subjected to 30 min of ischemia followed by 30 min of reperfusion. Salicylic acid (SAL) was used as the probe for *OH, and its derivatives 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) were quantified using HPLC. In addition, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) in the myocardium was measured. Plateaus in the measurement of 2,5- and 2,3-DHBA were seen from 3 to 8 min after reperfusion in each group. The group that received 100 microM MEL+ SAL had significantly reduced amounts of 2,5- and 2,3-DHBA by multiple folds, compared to the SAL group. TBARS was significantly decreased in the 100 microM MEL group (1.20+/-0.36 vs 1.85+/-0.10 micromol/g of drug-free group, p<0.001). More importantly, the 100 microM MEL group significantly recovered in LV function (LV developed pressure, +dp/dt, and -dp/dt; 63.0%, 60.3%, and 59.4% in the 100 microM MEL group; 30.2%, 29.7%, and 31.5% in the drug-free group, respectively; p<0.05). Duration of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation significantly decreased in the 100 microM MEL group (100 microM MEL, 159+/-67 sec; drug-free, 1244+/-233 sec; p<0.05). As a result of scavenging *OH and reducing the extent of lipid peroxidation, MEL is an effective agent for protection against postischemic reperfusion injury.
The objective was to determine the effect of combined antituberculosis (anti-TB) drug therapy and an antioxidant, melatonin, on the free radical and organic acid profiles in an experimental rat model. A combined anti-TB drug, Rifater, consisting of 12.0 mg rifampicin, 0.8 mg isoniazid, and 23.0 mg pyrazinamide and 18.56 lg melatonin/kg body weight per day (corresponding to average physiological human intake) were orally administered to Sprague-Dawley rats. Hydroxyl radical production was monitored by quantifying 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid produced after intraperitonial sodium salicylate injections. Organic acid extractions and gas chromatography-coupled mass spectrometry analyses were performed on collected urine samples. The results show hydroxyl radicals (P ¼ 0.0019) and organic acids (P-value range: 0.037 to <0.001), characteristic of a multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase defect (MADD), were elevated with Rifater treatment and these elevations were significantly lowered with melatonin pretreatment (P-value range: 0.031 to <0.001), probably because of its inherent antioxidant activity. We conclude that hydroxyl radical production and an increased organic acid profile induced by anti-TB medication indicates inhibition of the electron transport chain. We also conclude that free radicals leading to clinical symptoms associated with an MADD metabolic profile induced by anti-TB treatment could be alleviated by melatonin intervention.
The present study was examined whether tamoxifen, a synthetic nonsteroidal antiestrogen, could suppress antidepressant drug phenelzine can increase an active dopaminergic neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+))-induced hydroxyl radical (OH) generation in the extracellular fluid of rat striatum, using in vivo microdialysis system. Rats were anesthetized, and sodium salicylate (0.5 nmol/microl/min) was infused through a microdialysis probe to detect the generation of OH as reflected by the non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) in the striatum. Infusion of phenelzine (100 microM or 0.1 nmol/microl/min) into the striatum drastically increased dopamine (DA) efflux and the OH formation, trapped as 2,3-DHBA by the possible increased production of MPP(+). However, tamoxifen (100 microM) significantly suppressed phenelzine enhanced DA efflux and OH formation by MPP(+). These results in the present study is the first demonstration showing the protective effect of tamoxifen on OH generation induced by phenelzine enhanced MPP(+) by suppressing DA efflux.
Background ::: Non-enzymatic hydroxylation of aromatic compounds to the respective phenolic derivatives is a possible metabolic pathway of xenobiotics. The formed metabolites can undergo consecutive oxidative reactions with free radicals to form potential toxic molecules. ::: ::: ::: Objective ::: Development of HPLC methods to separate, identify and quantitate the main products formed from salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid under in vitro hydroxylation conditions (Udenfriend's system). ::: ::: ::: Method ::: An RP-HPLC-UV-Vis method was developed to separate salicylic acid and isomeric dihydroxybenzoic acids formed in the Udenfriend's system. Confirmation of structures of the oxidized products of salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was performed by HPLC-ESI-MS/MS method. ::: ::: ::: Results ::: The HPLC-UV-Vis method was evaluated for a number of validation characteristics (selectivity, repeatability and intermediate precision, LOD, LOQ and calibration range). It was found that oxidation of salicylic acid resulted in the formation of 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids. Furthermore, the hydroxylated metabolites can be further metabolized under the Udenfriend's conditions. ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: The results give evidence for possible involvement of the oxidized metabolites of salicylic acid in the development of biological action of salicylates at the site of inflammation, where high hydroxyl radical level can be detected.
Abstract The radiation-induced degradation of salicylic acid (SA–) in aqueous solutions (1.0 and 0.1 mmol dm−3) saturated with N2O or air or without oxygen were studied. Irradiation was carried out using a cobalt-60 source. With a 1 mmol dm−3 solution saturated with N2O a seemingly total degradation occurred at about 18 kGy, although small quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catechol and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid were present at that dose at concentrations of 67, 22 and 6 μmol dm−3 respectively. Under air and when free oxygen, the three radiolytic products were present at 18.54 kGy while SA– was destroyed only to 90% and 62%, respectively. In the case of 0.1 mmol dm−3 SA– solutions, the acid was degraded at 3.5 kGy if the solution contained N2O, at 5.8 kGy in air and at 7 kGy without oxygen. The concentration of the radiolytic products increased with increasing dose and after a maximum they decreased. The oxidation was followed by measuring the chemical oxygen demand; the slopes were 0.48 and 0.11, 0.21 and 0.07, 0.15 and 0.03 mmol dm−3 kGy−1 for 1.0 and 0.10 mmol dm−3 solutions saturated with N2O or air or without oxygen, respectively.
Organisms and general methods. The strains of S. typhimurium used in this report were obtained from M. Luckey. Strain TA2700 lacks the capacity to use hydroxamic acid siderophores, whereas both TA2700 and enb-7 are unable to synthesize 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid but are able to convert 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid into enterobactin (9, 15 Columbia Organic, whereas chemicals whose source is not indicated were obtained from commercial suppliers. T. plicata wood was obtained as commercial lumber.
Development of HPLC methods to separate, identify and quantitate the main products formed from salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid under in vitro hydroxylation conditions (Udenfriend's system).
An RP-HPLC-UV-Vis method was developed to separate salicylic acid and isomeric dihydroxybenzoic acids formed in the Udenfriend's system. Confirmation of structures of the oxidized products of salicylic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid was performed by HPLC-ESI-MS/MS method.
The system KSCN–H2O2–CuSO4–NaOH, also known as the Orban–Epstein oscillatory reaction, is exposed to external perturbations by several phenolic compounds: catechol, resorcinol, hydroquinone, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, and ferulic acid. As a result of the performed perturbation in most examined cases, oscillations have been inhibited for some characteristic time, and resumed afterwards. The evaluated inhibition time is typical for each substance and strongly dependent on its concentration. The chemical mechanism of the interaction between the Orban–Epstein system and phenolic compounds is briefly discussed. Numerical simulations are performed using the original Orban–Epstein model with 30 reactions, extended by three reactions describing the interaction with inhibitory substances. The rate constants of three added reactions are adjusted to fit experimental inhibition times, and compared among used compounds. The observed effects are discussed further in relation with the bond dissociation enthalpy theory. Unlike other tested compounds, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid remains off from predicted order of activity.
Abstract Pyridyltetrazolium is an advantageous molecular precursor for its abundant coordination sites, which is adequate for the design of novel multi-dimensional structures. Three compounds of P-pyridyltetrazolium with 1,2,3-benzenetricarboxylic acid 1, M-pyridyltetrazolium with 1,2,3-benzenetricarboxylic acid 2, and P-pyridyltetrazolium with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid 3 were synthesized and investigated. Compounds 1 and 2 indicated that the position of the coordination nitrogen atom will affect the structure of the supramolecule. Compound 1 finally formed a three-dimensional network through hydrogen bonds of O–H⋯O and O–H⋯N, whereas compound 2 formed a two-dimensional layered structure and water molecules play an important role in the construction of the two-dimensional layer. In addition to O–H⋯N hydrogen bond interaction, a weak C–H⋯C hydrogen bond also has significant effect on the construction of compound 3. Some main supramolecular synthons observed in three compounds were shown to construct most of these hydrogen bonding networks. The three compounds have been characterized by single crystal X-ray diffraction, 1H nuclear magnetic resonance, infrared spectroscopy and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). Furthermore, their supramolecular structures are fully analyzed.
Derivatives of benzoic acid, glyoxylic acid benzhydrazone, oxanilic acid and N-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene were investigated as catecholic iron chelators under iron-depleted conditions. Some of the compounds showed strong positive reactions in the universal chemical siderophore assay (CAS): 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, glyoxylic acid 2,3-dihydroxybenzhydrazone, N-3,4-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene. In particular these compounds also enabled removal of iron from iron-saturated transferrin. Using various siderophore indicator strains (enterobacteriacecae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas hydrophila mutants) in bioassays the following growth promotion could be detected: vicinal substituents (e.g. 2,3- or 3,4-) were essential, the carboxyamido group seen in benzoic acids and glyoxylic acid benzhydrazones contributed to a positive reaction as well as the azomethin group (in N-3,4-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene). 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid and the 2,3-diacetoxy substitute preferably promoted growth of enterobacteriaceae mutants. In contrast, the 3,4- positioned compounds preferably promoted growth of P. aeruginosa mutants and A. hydrophila SB 22. Glyoxylic acid di(methoxycarbonyloxy)-benzhydrazones (2,3- and 3,4- positioned) including the 2,3-dihydroxy compound preferably enabled growth of the non-fermenters. N-3,4-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene supplied all mutants of Salmonella, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella, Morganella, P. aeruginosa and A. hydrophila with iron. Transport of glyoxylic acid 2,3-dihydroxybenzhydrazone depended on tonB, and required the involvement of the iron-regulated outer membrane proteins (IROMPs) FepA, Cir and Fiu.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid has been identified as a potentially useful iron-chelating drug. Accordingly, we have evaluated a series of derivatives of hydroxylated benzoic acids for their ability to induce iron excretion in the iron-overloaded rat. In addition, we have examined a number of hydroxamic acids and some other naturally occurring iron-chelating agents. Of the 26 benzoic acid derivatives studied, none appeared to be more effective than 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, for reasons which are discussed. Rhodotorulic acid, a hydroxamic acid produced by and isolated from cultures of Rhodotorula pilimanae, was the most effective of all the compounds studied in inducing iron excretion. When administered parenterally, rholotorulic acid induced iron excretion via both the urinary and the fecal routes and was more than twice as potent (on a weight basis) as desferrioxamine. Two ferrous chelators, alpha, alpha-dipyridyl ad 1,10-phenanthroline, induced a moderate amount of iron excretion, suggesting that a pool of ferrous iron may be available for chelation.
Abstract Hydroxyl free radical production seems to play an important role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson’s disease. In the present study, we investigated the dopamine agonists pramipexole and pergolide as well as the nitrone compound S-PBN (N-tert-butyl-α-(2-sulfophenyl)nitrone) to reduce hydroxyl radical formation. Microdialysis experiments were carried out in non-anaesthetized Wistar rats. Salicylate was incorporated into the perfusion fluid to measure indirectly hydroxyl radicals indicated by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA). Local perfusion with 0.2 or 2 nmol/2 μl/min 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) via the microdialysis probe significantly increased 2,3-DHBA levels 14-fold and 47-fold, respectively. Systemic application of either pergolide (0.05 mg/kg) or pramipexole (1 mg/kg) failed to significantly reduce 6-OHDA-induced hydroxyl radical production. In contrast, a 40 min pretreatment with pramipexole (2 and 10 nmol/2 μl/min via the probe) before onset of 6-OHDA perfusion, significantly attenuated 2,3-DHBA levels compared with vehicle controls. S-PBN pretreatment (2 nmol/2 μl/min) was not effective to reduce 2,3-DHBA levels. In conclusion, pramipexole was able to reduce hydroxyl radical levels induced by 6-OHDA in vivo after local application. This property of pramipexole may be beneficial under conditions of enhanced hydroxyl radical formation in parkinsonian brains and may add to its well known dopamine D2-like receptor agonistic effects.
We examined the antioxidant activity of the following natural phenolic compounds present in food: 3-OH-benzoic acid (3-OH-BA); 4-OH-benzoic acid (4-OH-BA); 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-diOH-BA); 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-diOH-BA or protocatechuic acid); ferulic acid; caffeic acid; and 2-coumaric, 3-coumaric and 4-coumaric acids. We measured the inhibitory effect of these compounds on iron-dependent oxidative DNA damage in vitro [incubating herring sperm DNA with Fe(III)/GSH] or using cumene hydroperoxide (CumOOH) as a free-radical generating system; we also studied the interaction of these phenols with Fe(II) or Fe(III) spectrophotometrically. Among the tested compounds, 2,3-diOH-BA, 3,4-diOH-BA and caffeic acid interacted with Fe(II) and showed a potent inhibitory effect on iron-induced oxidative DNA damage. CumOOH-induced DNA oxidation was not modified by these compounds. On the contrary, 2-coumaric, 3-coumaric and 4-coumaric acids did not interact with iron but protected against oxidative DNA damage induced by Fe(III)/GSH and by CumOOH, indicating a direct free-radical scavenging activity of these compounds in both systems. The IC(50)+/-S.E.M. of the three coumaric acids against CumOOH-induced DNA oxidation was 44.2+/-2.0, 54.7+/-2.0 and 33.1+/-1.0 microM, respectively. On the contrary, 3-OH-BA and 4-OH-BA did not have scavenging activity and 3-OH-BA actually enhanced oxidative DNA damage. In conclusion, some natural phenolic acids, commonly present in food, have interesting protective activity against DNA oxidation in vitro and deserve further consideration as effective antioxidants in vivo.
SeminaryInhibition of catechol catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) in the brains of subjects treated with l-DOPA (l-3,4-dihydroxylphenylalanine) and an aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) inhibitor is suggested to cause an increase of l-DOPA, which might lead to oxidative damage through enhanced formation of free radicals. To investigate this hypothesis, the acute effects of two doses of the systemically administered COMT inhibitors entacapone (peripheral) and tolcapone (peripheral and central) on the extracellular formation of hydroxyl radicals in vivo following treatment with l-DOPA and the AADC inhibitor carbidopa were examined. The formation of extracellular hydroxyl radicals were determined by the measurement of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), a reaction product of hydroxyl radicals with sodium salicylate, using microdialysis in the striatum of anesthetised rats. The COMT inhibitors were administered together with 50mg/kg i.p. carbidopa as 5% gum arabic suspensions intraperitoneally (i.p.) at doses of 0, 1.0, and 10mg/kg body weight to a total of 36 male HAN-Wistars rats, l-DOPA was injected i.p. 40min after drugs of interest. Microdialysis samples were collected every 20 min for 400 min at a perfusion rate of 1µl/min. Systemically administered 10mg/kg tolcapone, but not entacapone, induced an increase in hydroxyl radical formation in the striatum of anesthetised rats following treatment with l-DOPA/carbidopa. The increase in hydroxyl radical formation was reflected by higher extracellular concentrations of the hydroxylate product of salicylate, 2,3-DHBA, peaking at 192% of baseline at the end of the observation period. Similar results were also found using the AUC (area under the curve) value estimated for the observation period. We conclude that the increase in hydroxyl radical formation is likely to result from an increased rate of monoamine oxidase-mediated and non-enzymatic (autoxidation) dopamine metabolism following increased central availability caused by reduction in COMT-mediated metabolism. We cannot, however, exclude the possibility that hydroxyl radicals are produced by tolcapone as a result of uncoupling mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation.
2-3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was evaluated as a potentially useful, orally effective iron-chelating drug by performing iron balance studies in patients with beta-thalassaemia major. The administration of this substance at 25 mg/kg/d to five patients for 8 d caused an average increase in iron excretion of 4.5 mg/d. When the drug was administered at 25 mg/kg q.i.d. to eight patients for 21 d, iron excretion increased to 6.5 mg/d. Chelation was highly specific for iron with changes in magnesium and calcium excretion being insignificant. The drug was well tolerated with side effects limited to gastrointestinal complaints which ameliorated when the drug was taken with food. These studies provide a rationale for further evaluation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in patients with iron overload.
Multifunctional molecules are capable of assembling via different supramolecular synthons, or hydrogen bond motifs, between the same or different functional groups, leading to the possibility of polymorphism. We have employed sublimation and melt crystallization to generate two new crystalline polymorphs of 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), and a second form for 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid each. Since hydroxybenzoic acids tend to give solvate/hydrate crystal structures by solution crystallization, solvent-free methods are necessary to obtain single crystals of unsolvated forms. In addition to guest-free polymorphs, a new hydrate polymorph of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was crystallized from cold water. Polymorphs of dihydroxybenzoic acids differ in the number of symmetry-independent molecules (Z′), the nature of the hydrogen bond synthon, the molecular packing, and the unit cell parameters. Structural and thermal characterization of polymorphic phases shows that the commercial ma...
The production of drugs is extremely important nowadays. Chemical stability, high solubility and, hence, high bioavailability are some of the most important properties that should be characteristic of a particular active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). 1 Amidon et al. introduced the classification of APIs into 4 groups due to the above parameters: class 1 (high solubility, high permeability), class 2 (low solubility, high permeability), class 3 (high solubility, low permeability) and class 4 (low solubility, low permeability). 2 About 40% of sold medicines and 80-90% of drugs in the production process are poorly soluble in water. 3 A major problem for the pharmaceutical industry is the lack of desired physicochemical properties for given APIs, because it requires searching for suitable methods to improve them, 4 i.e. obtaining polymorphic forms, [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] solvates and hydrates, 14 -21 cocrystals [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] or salts. [27] [28] [29] [30] Polymorphs of APIs have different properties, such as hygroscopicity, stability, solubility or processability, but, in many cases, it is not possible to predict or design a specific polymorphic form of an API. Moreover, some of them may be metastable and may undergo phase transformations, 31, 32 which may result in undesirable changes in physicochemical properties. 33 Solvent molecules in solvates can improve the stability of metastable forms through strong hydrogen bonds with API molecules, or they can act as guests by filling free places in the host crystal lattice without interactions between them. 34, 35 However, solvents can sometimes lead to disorder in the crystal lattice, which can result in a metastable form of a substance. 36 In contrast to cocrystals, preparation of salts requires APIs having ionizable functional groups. 4 Therefore, the cocrystallization of drugs offers more synthetic possibilities. Another advantage is that a particular API can exist in a stable crystalline form with a suitably selected coformer without excipients. 37 What is more, it is a relatively fast and simple method, which in turn translates into financial issues for pharmaceutical companies and can improve properties such as tabletability, stability, solubility, dissolution rates, bioavailability and mechanical properties. [38] [39] [40] [41] In this paper, four theobromine (TBR) cocrystals with 2,4dihydroxy-(24DHBA), 2,5-dihydroxy-(25DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxy-(34DHBA) and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (35DHBA), a cocrystal hydrate with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (23DHBA), and a salt monohydrate containing 2,6-dihydroxybenzoate anion (26DHBA) were reported. All of these xanthine derivatives obtained by cocrystallization from solution and by grinding were characterized by SXRD, PXRD and UV-vis spectral measurements to check the improvement of their solubility in water after cocrystallization. In earlier work, we report theobromine with monohydroxybenzoic acid cocrystals. 42 Both of these studies fit into the mainstream of structural studies of purine alkaloid cocrystals. 29, 43, 44 Their aim is to hierarchize supramolecular synthons responsible for the molecular arrangement in xanthine cocrystals. The design of new pharmaceutical derivatives with the desired physicochemical properties, having two or more components, could be simpler with a greater understanding and knowledge of the synthonic hierarchy in organic cocrystals. [45] [46] [47] The choice of theobromine for cocrystallization is related to the fact that only 8 cocrystals (with 5-chlorosalicylic, 48 2-hydroxybenzoic, 49 oxalic, 50 trifluoroacetic, 51 malonic, 51 acetic, 52 and anthranilic 49, 53 acids and melamine 54 ) and 4 cocrystal hydrates (with quercetin, 55 vanillin, 56 vanillic acid 57 and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid 55 ) with this alkaloid have been deposited in the CSD so far. Hydroxybenzoic acids are often used as coformers to obtain multi-component systems, e.g. with theophylline, 43 caffeine, 44, 58 pyrazinamide, 59, 60 urotropine, 61-63 ethenzamide 64 and gabapentin. 65 
The stability constants of ferric complexes with several substituted catechol (1,2-dihydroxybenzene) ligands in aqueous solutions of low ionic strength have been determined at 27/sup 0/C in the pH range 2 to 11. Enterobactin, the principal siderophore of enteric bacteria, is a tricatechol and, from the formation constants reported here, is estimated to have a formation constant with ferric ion which is greater than 10/sup 45/. The stepwise formation constants, K/sub n/, of the catechol ligands reported here are defined as (ML/sub n/)/(ML/sub n-1/)(L), in units of L mol/sup -1/, where (L) is the concentration of the deprotonated catechol ligand. The constants were determined from potentiometric and spectroscopic data and were refined on pH values by weighted least squares. Qualitative examination of electron spin resonance spectra of the systems indicated some oxidation of the ligand by ferric ions at pH values as high as 4. The ligands studied included catechol (cat) (log K/sub 1/ = 20.01, log K/sub 2/ = 14.69, log K/sub 3/ = 9.01); 4,5-dihydroxy-m-benzenedisulfonate (Tiron) (log K/sub 2/ = 15.12, log K/sub 3/ = 10.10); 4-nitrocatechol (ncat) (log K/sub 1/ = 17.08, log K/sub 2/ = 13.43, log K/sub 3/ = 9.51); 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (dhpa) (log K/sub 1/more » = 20.1, log K/sub 2/ = 14.9, log K/sub 3/ = 9.0); and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (dhba) (log K/sub 1/ = 20.5). The acid dissociation constants, K/sub a/s, were determined also. For the catechol protons these follow: cat (pK/sub a/sub 1// = 9.22, pK/sub a/sub 2// = 13.0); Tiron (pK/sub a/sub 1// = 7.70, pK/sub a/sub 2// = 12.63); ncat (pK/sub a/sub 1// = 6.65, pK/sub a/sub 2// = 10.80); dhpa (pK/sub a/sub 1// = 9.49, pK/sub a/sub 2// = 13.7); and dhba (pK/sub a/sub 1// = 10.06, pK/sub a/sub 2// = 13.1). In addition, carboxylate substituents of dhpa and dhba have pK/sub a/s of 4.17 and 2.70, respectively.In solution, exchange is slow between these two types of coordination following changes in pH. 2 tables, 11 figures, 52 references.« less
Micromonospora sp. M39 was selected as a producer of antifungal substances. Cell mass and antifungal activity of the organism was dependent on the carbon and nitrogen sources used. A combination of glucose, starch and glycerol as carbon sources at 1%(w/v) and corn steep powder as a nitrogen source at 0.25%(w/v) concentration in basal medium gave a maximum growth of 17.2 PCV/50 ml and in vitro an antifungal activity of 19.0 mm against the rice blast pathogen Pyricularia oryzaeMPO 293. In the selected production medium, optimum antifungal activity of the crude extract of the strain M39 was on day 16 of fermentation at 28 ± 2 °C. The crude extract of the strain M39 was analyzed and characterized by HPLC-DAD-UV–visible spectra. The peaks with a retention time of 4.88 min had a u.v. spectrum identical to that of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The peak with a retention time of 6.08 min was confirmed by an automated spectral library search as phenylacetic acid. Two other peaks in the chromatogram were identified as cervinomycin A1 with a retention time at 12.78 min and cervinomycin A2 with a retention time at 13.46 min.
The hydroxyl radical (.OH) has been implicated as a cause of lung injury following asbestos exposure. However, despite in vitro evidence associating asbestos with .OH production, there has been no demonstration of such generation in vivo. We tested the hypothesis that .OH is formed in the lungs of rats exposed to asbestos in vivo by using salicylate as a free radical trap. Asbestos was instilled intratracheally, and control rats were sham-exposed. Six to seven days after exposure, the rats were given salicylate, the lungs were isolated, and salicylate hydroxylation products (2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid), reflecting .OH production, were measured. There was significantly more 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid in asbestos-exposed lungs compared with control lungs (2.32 +/- 0.360 nmol/lung versus 0.292 +/- 0.125, respectively, P < 0.001) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (9.69 +/- 1.65 nmol/lung versus 2.63 +/- 0.274, respectively, P < 0.001). To demonstrate that the dihydroxybenzoic acid was actually formed in th...
Inside the human body, reactive derivatives of oxygen, known as reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as the superoxide radical (O2•), hydroxyl radical (•OH) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), are constantly generated. The ROS easily cause oxidative damage to various biomolecules such as proteins, lipids and DNA leading to various disease conditions. Iron chelators function as antioxidants by scavenging ROS and also reduce the amount of available iron thereby decreasing the quantity of •OH generated by Fenton reactions. In this study, the antioxidant activity of the iron chelators: caffeic acid (CA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), desferroxamine B (FOB) and benzohydroxamic acid (BHA) were determined using five different in vitro antioxidant assays. The antioxidant assays used were: iron binding ability, reducing ability using the potassium ferricyanide reduction method, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity, H2O2 scavenging activity and •OH scavenging activity. The standard used for the iron binding ability was Na2EDTA whereas vitamin C was used as a standard for the remaining assays. The iron chelators showed a concentration dependent increase in their radical scavenging activities as well as their reducing ability. At the concentration of 1 mM, FOB had the highest iron binding ability of 93.7% whereas DHBA had the lowest iron binding ability of 5.0% compared to the standard Na2EDTA which had 94.8%. The iron chelators, with the exception of BHA, showed good reducing ability than vitamin C. Caffeic acid showed significant DPPH, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radical scavenging activities of 84.7%, 99.8% and 14.5%, respectively. All the iron chelators were observed to show significant activities in all five antioxidant assays.
Acinetobacter calcoaceticus HIRFA32 from wheat rhizosphere produced catecholate type of siderophore with optimum siderophore (ca. 92 % siderophore units) in succinic acid medium without FeSO4 at 28 °C and 24 h of incubation. HPLC purified siderophore appeared as pale yellow crystals with molecular weight [M(+1)] m/z 347.18 estimated by LCMS. The structure elucidated by (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, HMQC, HMBC, NOESY and decoupling studies, revealed that siderophore composed of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with hydroxyhistamine and threonine as amino acid subunits. In vitro study demonstrated siderophore mediated mycelium growth inhibition (ca. 46.87 ± 0.5 %) of Fusarium oxysporum. This study accounts to first report on biosynthesis of acinetobactin-like siderophore by the rhizospheric strain of A. calcoaceticus and its significance in inhibition of F. oxysporum.
The reduction of dioxygen by cellobiose oxidase leads to accumulation of H2O2, with either cellobiose or microcrystalline cellulose as electron donor. Cellobiose oxidase will also reduce many Fe(III) complexes, including Fe(III) acetate. Many Fe(II) complexes react with H2O2 to produce hydroxyl radicals or a similarly reactive species in the Fenton reaction as shown: H2O2+ Fe2+ HO•+ HO−+ Fe3+. The hydroxylation of salicylic acid to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid is a standard test for hydroxyl radicals. Hydroxylation was observed in acetate buffer (pH 4.0), both with Fe(II) plus H2O2 and with cellobiose oxidase plus cellobiose, O2 and Fe(III). The hydroxylation was suppressed by addition of catalase or the absence of iron [Fe(II) or Fe(III) as appropriate]. Another test for hydroxyl radicals is the conversion of deoxyribose to malondialdehyde; this gave positive results under similar conditions. Further experiments used an O2 electrode. Addition of H2O2 to Fe(II) acetate (pH 4.0) or Fe(II) phosphate (pH 2.8) in the absence of enzyme led to a pulse of O2 uptake, as expected from production of hydroxyl radicals as shown: RH + HO• R•+ H2O;R•+ O2 RO•2 products. With phosphate (pH 2.8) or 10 mM acetate (pH 4.0), the O2 uptake pulse was increased by Avicel, suggesting that the Avicel was being damaged. Oxygen uptake was monitored for mixtures of Avicel (5 g · 1−1), cellobiose oxidase, O2 and Fe(III) (30 μM). An addition of catalase after 20–30 min indicated very little accumulation of H2O2, but caused a 70% inhibition of the O2 uptake rate. This was observed with either phosphate (pH 2.8) or 10 mM acetate (pH 4.0) as buffer, and is further evidence that oxidative damage had been taking place, until the Fenton reaction was suppressed by catalase. A separate binding study established that with 10 mM acetate as buffer, almost all (98%) of the Fe(III) would have been bound to the Avicel. In the presence of Fe(III), cellobiose oxidase could provide a biological method for disrupting the crystalline structure of cellulose.
Abstract Five compounds, each containing 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and serine, have been isolated from culture media of Escherichia coli and Aerobacter aerogenes grown under conditions of iron deficiency. Evidence for the structure of each of these compounds is presented. One of the compounds is a cyclic trimer of 2,3-dihydroxy-N-benzyol- l -serine, which on treatment with aqueous base, gives rise to the other four compounds found in culture supernatants: 2,3-dihydroxy-N-benzoylserine; N,N′-bis(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-O-seryl serine; N,N′, N″-tris(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-O-seryl-O-seryl serine, and a nonhydrolytic cleavage product N,N′, N″-tris(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-O-(α-aminoacrylyl)-O-seryl serine. The cyclo-tris(2,3-dihydroxy-N-benzoylseryl), for which the trivial name enterochelin is suggested, has steric properties which enable it to complex with a metal ion as a hexadentate ligand through the phenolic groups.
• OH generated by Fenton reactions. In this study, the antioxidant activity of the iron chelators: caffeic acid (CA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), desferroxamine B (FOB) and benzohydroxamic acid (BHA) were determined using five different in vitro antioxidant assays. The antioxidant assays used were: iron binding ability, reducing ability using the potassium ferricyanide reduction method, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity, H 2 O 2 scavenging activity and
In this study, the antioxidant and free radical scavenging activities of the iron chelators: caffeic acid (CA), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), desferroxamine B (FOB) and benzohydroxamic acid (BHA) (Fig. 1.1 ) were evaluated using in vitro assays including: iron binding ability; Fig. 1.1 . Structures of iron chelators used in this study.
Abstract Acinetobacter calcoaceticus HIRFA32 from wheat rhizosphere produced catecholate type of siderophore with optimum siderophore (ca. 92 % siderophore units) in succinic acid medium without FeSO 4 at 28°C and 24 h of incubation. HPLC purified siderophore appeared as pale yellow crystals with molecular weight [M C NMR, HMQC, HMBC, NOESY and decoupling studies, revealed that siderophore composed of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with hydroxyhistamine and threonine as amino acid subunits. In vitro study demonstrated siderophore mediated mycelium growth inhibition (ca. 46.87 ± 0.5 %) of Fusarium oxysporum. This study accounts to first report on biosynthesis of acinetobactin-like siderophore by the rhizospheric strain of A. calcoaceticus and its significance in inhibition of F. oxysporum.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), the dopamine (DA) neuronal cell death in the nigrostriatal system has been proposed to be mediated by reactive oxygen radicals such as hydroxyl radicals (.OH). This.OH production may cause lipid peroxidation of cell membranes leading to neuronal cell death. This paper report that the DA-selective neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)), (1 nmol/microl per min for 1 h) infusion into the striatum of rats induces elevation of extracellular DA and.OH formation. These elevations seem to induce lipid peroxidation of striatum membranes, as detected by increases in non-enzymatic formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) levels. To test the involvement of DA release in the.OH generation and lipid peroxidation, the rats were pretreated with reserpine (5 mg/kg, i.v., 24 h before MPP(+) or without MPP(+)) to deplete presynaptic DA. Reserpine treatment alone did not change the levels of DA or 2,3-DHBA, while the combined treatment with both MPP(+) and reserpine clearly decreased 2,3-DHBA, as well as DA levels, compared to those in the group treated with MPP(+) alone. After injection into reserpinized rats, DA at various doses (2, 5 and 10 microM) small increased 2,3-DHBA levels dose-dependently, as compared to the MPP(+) alone-treated group. These results clearly indicate that MPP(+) perfusion into the striatum increases extracellular DA levels and this increase may concomitantly induce the formation of reactive free oxygen radicals, such as.OH free radicals. These events may contribute, at least in part, to the nigrostriatal neurons cell death after MPP(+).
Abstract The production of siderophores (microbial iron transport agents) and siderophore-like substances was examined in the gram-negative bacterial plant pathogens, Agro-bacterium tumefaciens, Erwinia carotovora carotovora, Pseudomonas syringae pv. phaseolicola , and Erwinia amylovora , and in the saprophytic bacterium Agrobacterium radiobacter . This attribute was found to be widespread among the organisms surveyed. All but 2 of 27 different strains of A. tumefaciens and A. radiobacter investigated produced catechol-containing compounds during low-iron culture. One of these non-cat-echol-producing strains formed no detectable siderophore, and the other produced hydroxamate-like substances. The compound 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid as well as two water-soluble, ninhydrin-reacting catechols were found in iron-deficient cultures of E. c. carotovora 78. These phenolates enhanced the growth of the organism when stressed for iron. In response to iron-limiting growth, P. s. phaseolicola G50 produced substances which reacted with iron to give one purple and two orange-colored compounds. A mixture of these ferric complexes had growth factor activity for the organism when it was cultured in an iron-poor medium. Neither catechol nor hydroxamate-type siderophores were produced by E. amylovora Ea178 or Ea213. However, siderophore activity was detected in the supernatant fluids of low-iron cultures of both strains.
Abstract A novel siderophore (microbial iron transport compound) has been isolated from low iron cultures of Vibrio cholerae. Belonging to the catecholamide family of chelators, it has been shown to contain three residues of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and two residues of threonine. Both threonine moieties are present in the form of oxazoline rings. Furthermore, the polyamine backbone of the molecule was proved to be not spermidine, but the rare N-(3-aminopropyl)-1,3-diaminopropane, norspermidine. The structure of the new siderophore has been determined to be N-[3-(2,3-dihydroxybenzamido)propyl]-1, 3-bis[2,3-dihydroxyphenyl)-trans-5-methyl-2-oxazoline-4-carboxamido]prop ane. The compound has been given the trivial name vibriobactin. Mutants defective in the synthesis and utilization of vibriobactin were isolated. In an iron-limited environment V. cholerae was found to respond more strongly to vibriobactin, agrobactin, and ferrichrome than to enterobactin.
In our previous reports, aspirin, an antipyretic analgesic, suppressed the genotoxicity of mitomycin C (MMC) in a somatic mutation and recombination test (SMART) in Drosophila melanogaster. In order to reveal the mechanism of the anti-genotoxicity of aspirin, we evaluated the suppressing ability of each aspirin metabolite, such as salicylic acid (SA), salicyluric acid (SUA), gentisic acid (GA), gentisuric acid (GUA), and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), in SMART in Drosophila melanogaster using the cotreatment protocol in this report. SUA, GA, GUA, and DHBA reduced the number of the three types of spot induced by MMC without decrease of survival. These aspirin metabolites decreased the genotoxicity frequency of MMC for total spots in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, each metabolite decreased the genotoxicity frequency of MMC by approximately 80% at a dose of 40 mg/bottle, respectively. It is suggested that these metabolites are the main substances of anti-genotoxicity in the aspirin metabolic pathway.
Several studies have demonstrated that ischemic preconditioning increases superoxide dismutase activity, but it is unclear how ischemic preconditioning affects events downstream of hydrogen peroxide production during subsequent severe ischemia and reperfusion in the hippocampus. To answer this question, we investigated whether ischemic preconditioning in the hippocampal CA1 region increases the activities of antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and catalase, resulting in a decrease in the level of hydroxyl radicals during subsequent severe ischemia-reperfusion. Transient forebrain ischemia was induced by four-vessel occlusion in rats. Ischemic preconditioning for 3 min or a sham operation was performed and a 15-min severe ischemia was induced three days later. Ischemic preconditioning preserved the CA1 hippocampal neurons following severe ischemia. The concentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, an indicator of hydroxyl radical, was measured using in vivo microdialysis technique combined with HPLC. The ischemia-induced increase in the ratio of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid concentration relative to baseline did not differ significantly between preconditioned and control groups. On the other hand, activities of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase-1 and catalase were significantly increased at 3 days after ischemic preconditioning in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that, in preconditioned rats, while hydrogen peroxide is generated from severe ischemia, the activity of catalase and glutathione peroxidase-1 is correspondingly increased to eliminate the excessive hydrogen peroxide. However, our results show that the enhanced activity of these antioxidant enzymes in preconditioned rats is not sufficient to decrease hydroxyl radical levels during subsequent severe ischemia-reperfusion.
We induced acute skeletal muscle necrosis in rats using bupivacaine hydrochloride and found that both 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid significantly increased in skeletal muscle. A single administration of dimethyl sulphoxide, a free radical scavenger, significantly lowered concentrations of 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. These results suggest that dimethyl sulphoxide is an effective hydroxyl radical scavenger and may be useful in the treatment of myopathy.
ABSTRACTDispersive liquid–liquid microextraction using deep eutectic solvents, as novel extraction solvents, was developed for the separation, preconcentration, and determination of chlorophenol, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, p-cresol, 4-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol in vegetable oil. Seven deep eutectic solvents composed of choline chloride and different hydrogen bond donors (ethyl glycol, glycerol, 1,2-butanediol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, urea, and acetic acid) were characterized. The deep eutectic solvents formed by choline chloride-1,6-hexanediol in a 1:2 molar ratio provided the highest extraction efficiency. The sonication time, deep eutectic solvent volume, and disperser solvent were optimized. Under the optimal conditions of a sonication time of 11 min, a deep eutectic solvent volume of 90 µL, and acetone as the disperser solvent, extraction recoveries from 76.1 to 88.3% were obtained with 8.46 to 9.46 enrichment factors and the limits of detection exceeding 0.1 µ...
Abstract The catecholic derivative 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA or pyrocatechuic acid) represents a diversity of actions in enzymatic processes. In the present study DFT calculations (at the B3LYP/TZVP level of theory) have been performed for neutral 2,3DHBA and its dimer (models 1 – 1a ), several semiquinone forms of 2,3-DHBA, namely the neutral (models 2 – 4 ), the monoionized (models 5 – 7 ), the di-ionized (models 8 ) and the dimer 7a . The more stable species in each case are those with the carboxyl group protonated. Oxygenated adducts were also constructed (models 10 – 15 ) in which the dioxygen is either H-bonded to the catecholic or carboxylic hydrogen or it is concerned to act on the intradiol or extradiol carbon atoms. The side-on placement of O 2 on C(2) facilitates the intradiol C–C cleavage. Protonation of the oxygenated on C(1) adduct leads to decarboxylation of 2,3-DHBA. Isolation in the solid state and characterization by ESMS, IR, NMR, electronic spectra of the blue-green oxidized product of 2,3-DHBA (solid 1 ) supports the possibility of the existence of the semiquinone form or the hydroperoxide–adduct. Experimental spectroscopic data are correlated to the calculated spectroscopic parameters. In the ESMS the decarboxylation and degradation products as well a peroxo-adduct have been detected. Oxygenated species may also account for the plethora of redox signals in the cyclic voltammograms of solid 1 (in DMSO solutions).
From fermentation broths of three antibiotic-resistant bioactive mutants of a wild-type marine-derived actinomycete strain without antitumor activity,M15,nine compounds 1-9 being newly produced by comparison with their parent M15 were isolated and identified as 1,9-dicarbomethoxy-phenazine(1),ergosterol peroxide(2),4-(methyamino)-benzoic acid(3),genistein(4),daidzein(5),N-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-acetamide(6),2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid(7),uracil(8) and 1H-pyrrole-2-carboxylic acid(9),respectively.In a preliminary test,1,2,4,5,7 and 8 seem inhibitory on K562 cells,which would be further evaluated in detail.
Abstract Twenty arylhydroxamic acids were investigated as potential antimitogenic agents using phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human lymphocytes in culture. 4-Hydroxybenzoylhydroxamic acid (4-HBHA) was active (82 per cent inhibition at 10 −4 M) against the blastogenic transformation as assessed by thymidine-methyl- 3 H incorporation over a 2-hr interval initiated 46 hr after addition of phytohemagglutinin. Five other 4-substituted derivatives of benzoylhydroxamic acid were much less active. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoylhydroxamic acid (2,3-DHBHA) was also antimitogenic (87 per cent inhibition at 10 −4 M), while the 2,4-, 2,5-, and 2,6-dihydroxy analogs were relatively inactive. 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were inactive at 10 −4 M. Differences observed between the two active compounds as regards dose-response relationships, temporal variations in onset of action, and degrees of reversibility of inhibition indicated different action mechanisms for 4-HBHA and 2,3-DHBHA in spite of their apparent structural similarities.
Pathogenic bacteria survive in iron-limited host environments by using several iron acquisition mechanisms. Acinetobacter baumannii, causing serious infections in compromised patients, produces an iron-chelating molecule, called acinetobactin, which is composed of equimolar quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), L-threonine, and N-hydroxyhistamine, to compete with host cells for iron. Genes that are involved in the production and transport of acinetobactin are clustered within the genome of A. baumannii. A recent study showed that entA, located outside of the acinetobactin gene cluster, plays important roles in the biosynthesis of the acinetobactin precursor DHBA and in bacterial pathogenesis. Therefore, understanding the genes that are associated with the biosynthesis and transport of acinetobactin in the bacterial genome is required. This review is intended to provide a general overview of the genes in the genome of A. baumannii that are required for acinetobactin biosynthesis and transport.
Steroid myopathy is a well-known adverse effect of glucocorticoids that causes muscle weakness and atrophy; however, its pathogenic mechanism is still unclear. Recently, oxidative stress was reported to contribute to steroid myopathy, but there is no report that actually attempts to measure hydroxyl radical. I developed an animal model of steroid myopathy in rat with dexamethasone (9-Fluoro−11β,17, 21-trihydroxy−16α-methylpregna−1,4-diene−3,20-dione), and measured hydroxyl radical using the salicylate trapping method. There was significant dose-dependent relation between both 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids and dexamethasone in the treated group, compared to the control group. These results suggest that hydroxyl radical plays a role in the pathogenesis of steroid myopathy.
The coordination of the aluminium(III) cation to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-dhba), 5-nitrosalicylic acid (5-nsa), 4-nitrocatechol (4-ncat) and 3,5-dinitrocatechol (3,5-dncat) was studied by pH-potentiometry and by spectroscopic techniques. The stoichiometry of the complexes and their formation constants were determined. NMR spectroscopy allowed us to obtain thermodynamical, dynamical and structural information about the complexes formed in solution. The complexing power of these molecules was compared to that of catechol and salicylic acid. Additionally, the proton exchange rate constant between the phenolic and the phenolate forms of 5-nsa was determined by NMR line-shape analysis. This proton exchange that is usually very fast is considerably slowed down by the formation of an intramolecular hydrogen bond between the carboxylate and the phenolic groups.
Salicylic acid(SA),a common siezing agent for hydroxyl free radical(·OH),and its hydroxylating products with the·OH free radical,i.e.,2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2,3-DHBA)and 2,5- dihydroxybenzoic acid(2,5-DHBA),were separated and determined by capillary electrophoresis with non-contact conductivity detection.Under optimum conditions,the above mentioned compounds were separated and detected within 10 min.Linear relationship between response signal and concentration of either of the 3 compounds was kept in the range of 0.03-15.0 mg·L~(-1),with detection limits of 0.01 mg·L~(-1).Test for precision was made at the concentration level of 0.7 mg·L~(-1)of each of the 3 compounds with 8 determinations,value of RSD's for measurements of peak area were found to be 2.9%(for SA),3.2%(for 2,3-DHBA)and 3.6%(for 2,5-DHBA).
Several studies have demonstrated that ischemic preconditioning increases superoxide dismutase activity, but it is unclear how ischemic preconditioning affects events downstream of hydrogen peroxide production during subsequent severe ischemia and reperfusion in the hippocampus. To answer this question, we investigated whether ischemic preconditioning in the hippocampal CA1 region increases the activities of antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase and catalase, resulting in a decrease in the level of hydroxyl radicals during subsequent severe ischemia-reperfusion. Transient forebrain ischemia was induced by four-vessel occlusion in rats. Ischemic preconditioning for 3 min or a sham operation was performed and a 15-min severe ischemia was induced three days later. Ischemic preconditioning preserved the CA1 hippocampal neurons following severe ischemia. The concentration of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, an indicator of hydroxyl radical, was measured using in vivo microdialysis technique combined with HPLC. The ischemia-induced increase in the ratio of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid concentration relative to baseline did not differ significantly between preconditioned and control groups. On the other hand, activities of the antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase-1 and catalase were significantly increased at 3 days after ischemic preconditioning in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that, in preconditioned rats, while hydrogen peroxide is generated from severe ischemia, the activity of catalase and glutathione peroxidase-1 is correspondingly increased to eliminate the excessive hydrogen peroxide. However, our results show that the enhanced activity of these antioxidant enzymes in preconditioned rats is not sufficient to decrease hydroxyl radical levels during subsequent severe ischemia-reperfusion.
Pathogenic bacteria survive in iron-limited host environments by using several iron acquisition mechanisms. Acinetobacter baumannii, causing serious infections in compromised patients, produces an iron-chelating molecule, called acinetobactin, which is composed of equimolar quantities of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), L-threonine, and N-hydroxyhistamine, to compete with host cells for iron. Genes that are involved in the production and transport of acinetobactin are clustered within the genome of A. baumannii. A recent study showed that entA, located outside of the acinetobactin gene cluster, plays important roles in the biosynthesis of the acinetobactin precursor DHBA and in bacterial pathogenesis. Therefore, understanding the genes that are associated with the biosynthesis and transport of acinetobactin in the bacterial genome is required. This review is intended to provide a general overview of the genes in the genome of A. baumannii that are required for acinetobactin biosynthesis and transport.
Siderophores are high-affinity iron-chelating compounds secreted by pathogenic bacteria [3] . Siderophores are classified into three major groups−catecholates, hydroxamates, and carboxylates−by the ligands that are used to chelate the ferric iron [7] . The diversity of siderophores may have resulted from evolutionary pressure, causing the bacteria to produce structurally different siderophores that can not be transported by specific transport systems of other bacteria. For example, Escherichia coli produces a prototype catechol siderophore, which is a cyclic trimer of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl-L-serine [5] . In comparison, vibriobactin, produced by Vibrio cholera, is a non-cyclic derivative of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) [9] . Genes that are involved in the biosynthesis and uptake of siderophores are often clustered within the bacterial genome, and their products are closely linked to the virulence of pathogenic bacteria.
Cell death in outer hair cells of the mammalian inner ear induced by aminoglycoside antibiotics is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and can be prevented by antioxidants. The current study investigates the role of the nuclear factor (NF)-B pathway in cell death or survival in adult CBA mice. Kanamycin (700 mg/kg subcutaneously, twice per day) progressively destroys hair cells but after 7 days of treatment auditory function and morphology are not yet affected significantly, permitting investigations of early events in drug-induced cell death. Immunostaining for 4-hydroxynonenal, indicative of lipid peroxidation, was elevated in the cochlea, but there was no effect on nitrotyrosine, a marker for peroxynitrite. NF-B was increased at 3 hr, 3 days, and 7 days of treatment, with p50 and p65 proteins as its most abundant subunits. Immunoreactivity for p50 was present in nuclei of inner hair cells and supporting cells that survive the drug treatment. In contrast, nuclei of outer hair cells were devoid of label. Concomitant injections of antioxidants, however, such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid or salicylate (which prevent cell death induced by kanamycin), promoted the translocation of NF-B into the nuclei of outer hair cells. In addition, kanamycin treatment decreased tyrosine phosphorylation of the inhibitory IB protein, leading to increased IB levels in the cochlea; the effect was reversed by cotreatment with antioxidants. These results suggest that changes in the redox state of the cochlea stimulate the activation of NF-B and that this activation is cell protective. © 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Widespread emergence of antibiotic-resistant pathogens in recent years has restricted the treatment options for various infectious diseases. Investigation of alternative antimicrobial agents and therapies is thus of utmost importance. Electrospinning of 50 mg/ml 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) into 24 % (w/v) poly(d,l-lactide) (PDLLA) and poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) (1:1) produced nanofibers with an average diameter of 401 ± 122 nm. DHBA released from the nanofibers (315 ± 0.04 µg/ml within 2 h) inhibited the growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa Xen 5, Klebsiella pneumoniae Xen 39, Escherichia coli Xen 14, Salmonella typhimurium Xen 26, and Staphylococcus aureus strains Xen 30, Xen 31, and Xen 36. The reason for the rapid diffusion of DHBA from PEO:PDLLA may be due to formation of hydrogen bonds between the hydroxyl groups of DHBA and the C=O groups of the PDLLA. DHBA formed a strong interaction with PDLLA and increased the thermal stability of the nanofiber mesh. The DHBA-containing nanofibers were non-hemolytic, suggesting that they may be incorporated in the development of a wound dressing.
Summary Eleven Salmonella strains of diverse origin studied previously for enterotoxigenicity, cell surface hydrophobicity (HIC) and haemagglutination (HA) were studied for the production of a siderophore precursor 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) by colorimetry. The Salmonella strains were similarly grown aerobically and anaerobically in a deferrated (DF) medium containing 0.05 μg/ml iron at 22°C and 37°C. Salmonella strains positive for both heatlabile (LT) and heat-stable (ST) enterotoxins, i.e. ST+ LT+ strains produced 25–70 mg/l, DHB, bound to hydrophobic phenyl sepharose gel and exhibited mannose-resistant haemagglutination (MRHA) of bovine, chicken and human group A erythrocytes. Conversely, heat-labile enterotoxin-positive, only i.e. ST− LT+ strains produced less than 25 mg/l DHB and were negative for the three aforementioned parameters. This dichotomy was shown by strains grown aerobically at 22°C. Strains grown at 37°C gave disparate results while Salmonella anaerobically grown at both growth temperatures did not produce DHB. These studies demonstrate production of a siderophore during iron stress.
Cell death in outer hair cells of the mammalian inner ear induced by aminoglycoside antibiotics is mediated by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and can be prevented by antioxidants. The current study investigates the role of the nuclear factor (NF)-B pathway in cell death or survival in adult CBA mice. Kanamycin (700 mg/kg subcutaneously, twice per day) progressively destroys hair cells but after 7 days of treatment auditory function and morphology are not yet affected significantly, permitting investigations of early events in drug-induced cell death. Immunostaining for 4-hydroxynonenal, indicative of lipid peroxidation, was elevated in the cochlea, but there was no effect on nitrotyrosine, a marker for peroxynitrite. NF-B was increased at 3 hr, 3 days, and 7 days of treatment, with p50 and p65 proteins as its most abundant subunits. Immunoreactivity for p50 was present in nuclei of inner hair cells and supporting cells that survive the drug treatment. In contrast, nuclei of outer hair cells were devoid of label. Concomitant injections of antioxidants, however, such as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid or salicylate (which prevent cell death induced by kanamycin), promoted the translocation of NF-B into the nuclei of outer hair cells. In addition, kanamycin treatment decreased tyrosine phosphorylation of the inhibitory IB␣ protein, leading to increased IB␣ levels in the cochlea; the effect was reversed by cotreatment with antioxidants. These results suggest that changes in the redox state of the cochlea stimulate the activation of NF-B and that this activation is cell protective.
The ligands 1-H6 and 2-H6 are prepared by condensation of the triangular triamines 5 and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid hydrazide 7. The ligands form container-type tetrahedral coordination compounds Mx [(1 or 2)4M′4] (M = Li, Na, K; M′ = Ti, x = 8; M′ = Ga, x = 12). The complexes are characterized by NMR spectroscopy and ESI mass spectrometry. Despite the relatively labile acyl hydrazone unit, the complexes show high stability in water. Ligand 3-H6 is prepared from the trisacyl hydrazide 8 and 2,3-dihydroxybenzaldehyde 9 but does not form well-defined coordination compounds with gallium(III) or titanium(IV) ions.
Aspirin's potential as a drug continues to be evaluated for the prevention of colorectal cancer (CRC). Although multiple targets for aspirin and its metabolite, salicylic acid, have been identified, no unifying mechanism has been proposed to clearly explain its chemopreventive effects. Our goal here was to investigate the ability of salicylic acid metabolites, known to be generated through cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes, and its derivatives as cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors to gain new insights into aspirin's chemopreventive actions. Using in vitro kinase assays, for the first time, we demonstrate that salicylic acid metabolites, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,5-DHBA), as well as derivatives 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,4-DHBA), 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,6-DHBA), inhibited CDK1 enzyme activity. 2,3-DHBA and 2,6-DHBA did not inhibit CDK2 and 4; however, both inhibited CDK-6 activity. Interestingly, another derivative, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid (2,4,6-THBA) was highly effective in inhibiting CDK1, 2, 4 and 6 activity. Molecular docking studies showed that these compounds potentially interact with CDK1. Immunoblotting experiments showed that aspirin acetylated CDK1, and pre-incubation with salicylic acid and its derivatives prevented aspirin-mediated CDK1 acetylation, which supported the data obtained from molecular docking studies. We suggest that intracellularly generated salicylic acid metabolites through CYP450 enzymes within the colonic epithelial cells, or the salicylic acid metabolites generated by gut microflora may significantly contribute to the preferential chemopreventive effect of aspirin against CRC through inhibition of CDKs. This novel hypothesis and mechanism of action in aspirin's chemopreventive effects opens a new area for future research. In addition, structural modification to salicylic acid derivatives may prove useful in the development of novel CDK inhibitors in cancer prevention and treatment.
Oxygen (O2) at high pressures acts as a neurotoxic agent leading to convulsions. The mechanism of this neurotoxicity is not known; however, oxygen free radicals and nitric oxide (NO) have been suggested as contributors. This study was designed to follow the formation of oxygen free radicals and NO in the rat brain under hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) conditions using in vivo microdialysis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 100% O2 at a pressure of 3 atm absolute for 2 h. The formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as a result of perfusing sodium salicylate was followed as an indicator for the formation of hydroxyl radicals. 2,3-DHBA levels in hippocampal and striatal dialysates of animals exposed to HBO conditions were not significantly different from controls. However, rats treated under the same conditions showed a six- and fourfold increase in nitrite/nitrate, break down products of NO decomposition, in hippocampal and striatal dialysates, respectively. This increase was completely blocked by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor l-nitroarginine methyl ester (l-NAME). Using neuronal NOS, we determined the NOS O2 K m to be 158 ± 28 (SD) mmHg, a value which suggests that production of NO by NOS would increase approximately four- to fivefold under hyperbaric O2 conditions, closely matching the measured increase in vivo. The increase in NO levels may be partially responsible for some of the detrimental effects of HBO conditions.
In the present work, optimization of a hydrodynamic cavitation reactor, for maximizing the extent of hydroxyl radical generation, has been investigated using salicylic acid as a dosimeter. The effect of different operating parameters such as inlet pressure into the reactor, shape of the orifice, and concentration of salicylic acid employed was investigated where the extent of hydroxyl radical generation was quantified in terms of concentration of the hydroxylated products 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. With an upstream pressure of <100 psi no hydroxyl radicals were produced but excellent results were obtained with a small circular nozzle at 4000 psi and a salicylate concentration of 750 ppm. The use of a combination of ultrasound along with hydrodynamic cavitation is also reported for the first time and results in a 15% improvement in the hydroxyl radical generation when the distance between the orifice and transducer is 5–10 mm.
The iron complexes found in the systems FeCl3–phenol, FeCl3–catechol, FeCl3-2,3-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, FeCl3–2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and FeCl3–salicylic acid have been investigated by pH and conductance titrations together with Mossbauer spectroscopy. On the basis of further studies using ascorbic acid and salicylaldehyde, a mechanism for the reduction of FeIII to FeII and the reverse oxidation via a phenolic or catecholic radical is discussed. The properties of enterobactin are explored in the light of the chemistry of the model systems. The Mossbauer spectra of frozen aqueous solutions of hydroxybenzene compounds containing iron cations show that those complexes that are green or blue at acid pH contain FeII, whereas those that are purple or red contain FeIII. It is proposed that these results make the colour of the complex a good indication of the oxidation state of the iron in phenolic and catecholic systems.
Elayan, Ikram M., Milton J. Axley, Paruchuri V. Prasad, Stephen T. Ahlers, and Charles R. Auker. Effect of hyperbaric oxygen treatment on nitric oxide and oxygen free radicals in rat brain. J. Neurophysiol. 83: 2022-2029, 2000 ) at high pressures acts as a neurotoxic agent leading to convulsions. The mechanism of this neurotoxicity is not known; however, oxygen free radicals and nitric oxide (NO) have been suggested as contributors. This study was designed to follow the formation of oxygen free radicals and NO in the rat brain under hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) conditions using in vivo microdialysis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 100% O 2 at a pressure of 3 atm absolute for 2 h. The formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) as a result of perfusing sodium salicylate was followed as an indicator for the formation of hydroxyl radicals. 2,3-DHBA levels in hippocampal and striatal dialysates of animals exposed to HBO conditions were not significantly different from controls. However, rats treated under the same conditions showed a six-and fourfold increase in nitrite/nitrate, break down products of NO decomposition, in hippocampal and striatal dialysates, respectively. This increase was completely blocked by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor L-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Using neuronal NOS, we determined the NOS O 2 K m to be 158 Ϯ 28 (SD) mmHg, a value which suggests that production of NO by NOS would increase approximately four-to fivefold under hyperbaric O 2 conditions, closely matching the measured increase in vivo. The increase in NO levels may be partially responsible for some of the detrimental effects of HBO conditions.
Claviceps paspali FA produced high concentrations of alkaloid under submerged conditions. Their production was found to depend on the developmental stage and treatment of the filamentous culture inoculum. A medium containing Bacto-peptone with a constant composition of amino acids was selected for the preparation of the inoculum. A two-week fermentation in a synthetic medium with mannitol at 24 ± 1 °C resulted in an increased production of total alkaloids from the original value of 100–200 μg/mL to more than 2 000 μg/mL. Addition of tryptophan did not further increase the production of alkaloids but resulted in changes of the spectrum of some metabolites. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid accompanied the alkaloids in the fermentation medium. α-Hydroxyethyllysergamide was the predominant component of extracellular alkaloids (80 % in the first days of fermentation). During fermentation the level of this alkaloid continuously decreased while the concentration of the accompanying alkaloids,i.e. lysergamide and the corresponding minor isomers, increased.
From low-iron cultures of Vibrio fluvialis AQ 0012, two new compounds with siderophore activity were purified by XAD-7 adsorption followed by preparative TLC. Norspermidine and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were identified as constituents common to both compounds by GC-MS analyses of their acid hydrolytic products. In addition, L-threonine was identified in the hydrolysate of one compound, named fluvibactin. Based on high magnetic NMR analyses, the structure of fluvibactin was established as N4-[2-(2,3-dihydroxy-phenyl)-trans-5-methyl-2-oxazoline-4-yl]carboxy-N1, N7- bis-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-norspermidine, and that of the other compound as N1,N7-bis-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-norspermidine. The structures were supported by fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry. Both of the purified compounds restored growth inhibition of the producer strain and V. cholerae Non-O1 induced by ethylenediamine di-(o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid), a potent synthetic chelating agent of ferric iron.
Trihydroxytoluene is the principal phenol secreted into the medium by submerged cultures of Aspergillus fumigatus (approximately 100 mg/l medium). Smaller amounts of tetrahydroxytoluene and its O-methyl derivative are also formed after longer periods of incubation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Supplementation of the medium with cycloheximide, 8-azaguanine or 5-methyltryptophan markedly reduced the secretion of these latter modified phenols but the production of orsellinic acid and trihydroxytoluene was not significantly affected. ::: ::: ::: ::: Addition of 4-fluorophenylalanine, however, strongly suppressed formation of the acetatederived phenols but various shikimic acid-derived phenols were secreted: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid and 4-hydroxybenzyl cyanide. In addition, 4-fluorophenylpyruvic acid was formed in good yield, presumably by transamination of the inhibitor. ::: ::: ::: ::: Degradation studies on 4-hydroxybenzyl cyanide indicated that the –CN group arose by retention of the α-carbon atom of tyrosine.
The design and synthesis of a fluorescent probe Fl-Sal-AMS 6 based on the tight-binding inhibitor 5′-O-[N-(salicyl)sulfamoyl]adenosine (Sal-AMS) is described for the aryl acid adenylating enzymes (AAAEs) known as MbtA, YbtE, EntE, VibE, DhbE, and BasE involved in siderophore biosynthesis from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Yersinia pestis, Escherichia coli, Vibrio cholerae, Bacillus subtilis, and Acinetobacter baumannii, respectively. The probe was successfully used to develop a fluorescence polarization assay for these six AAAEs, and equilibrium dissociation constants were determined in direct binding experiments. Fl-Sal-AMS was effective for AAAEs that utilize salicylic acid or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid as native substrates, with dissociation constants ranging from 9−369 nM, but was ineffective for AsbC, the AAAE from Bacillus anthracis, which activates 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Competitive binding experiments using a series of ligands including substrates, reaction products, and inhibitors provided the f...
We report the rational design of ligands that selectively bind beryllium. We selected two ligands to design Be based on binding polynulear species with a Be-O-Be motif: 2-hydroxyisophthalic acid (HIPA) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). All previous work has focused on BeL or BeL2 species. The HIPA and DHBA have extremely high binding constants of 17.5 and 18.4, respectively. These ligands outcompete chromotropic acid, which has one the highest binding constants for Be reported in the literature for a simple BeL species. The binding of the second Be to form the Be-O-Be motif is so strong that polynuclear species predominates in solution down to micromolar concentrations. Both ligands show a fluorescence response in the presence of beryllium, making them promising candidates for fluorescence-based sensors. In the case of HIPA, there is a fluorescence shift, and in the case of DHBA, the presence of beryllium turns on the fluorescence by removing two OH bonds that otherwise lead to nonradiative decay. The most dramatic result is that DHBA selectively binds Be in the presence of a metal cocktail containing a 50-fold excess of Al, Fe, Cr, Cu, Zn, Cd, and Pb. This is the first time that such selectivity for beryllium has been demonstrated.
Society demands chemicals from sustainable sources. Identification of commercially important chemicals in crops increases value in biorefineries and reduces reliance on petrochemicals. Miscanthus sinensis and Miscanthus sacchariflorus are high-yielding distinct plants, which are sources of high-value chemicals and bioethanol through fermentation. Cinnamates in leaves, stems and flowers were analysed by LC-ESI-MS n . †  Corresponding author: Tel: +44 (0)1970 823216; Fax: +44 (0)1970 828357; E-mail: ifp@aber.ac.uk † Abbreviations: ADME = absorption, disposition, metabolism, excretion; CADPE = 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)ethyl caffeate; CAPE = 2-phenylethyl caffeate; 2-CaffHydCitA = 2-caffeoylhydroxycitric acid; 3-p-CoQA = 3-para-coumaroylquinic acid; 4-p-CoQA = 4-paracoumaroylquinic acid; 5-p-CoQA = 5-para-coumaroylquinic acid; CaffQA = caffeoylquinic acid; 1-CaffQA = 1-caffeoylquinic acid; 3-CaffQA = 3-caffeoylquinic acid; 4-CaffQA = 4-caffeoylquinic acid; 5-CaffQA = 5-caffeoylquinic acid; CaffSA = caffeoylshikimic acid; 3-CaffSA = 3-caffeoylshikimic acid; 4-CaffSA = 4-caffeoylshikimic acid; 5-CaffSA = 5-caffeoylshikimic acid; 2-CaffTA = 2-caffeoylthreonic acid; 2,3-diHydBA = 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 2,5-diHydBA = 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 3,4-diHydBA = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 2,3-diHydBA = 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid hexoside; 3,4-diHydBAHex = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid hexoside; 1,4-diCaffQA = 1,4-dicaffeoylquinic acid; 1,5-diCaffQA = 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid; 3,4-diCaffQA = 3,4-dicaffeoylquinic acid; 3,5-diCaffQA = 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid; FA = ferulic acid; 2-FHydCitA = 2-feruloyl hydroxycitric acid MS = liquid chromatography-electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry; p-CoA = para-coumaric acid; PDA = photodiode array; SA = syringic acid; UV = ultra-violet.
