Aims/hypothesisThe aims of the present work were to identify plasma metabolites that predict future type 2 diabetes, to investigate the changes in identified metabolites among individuals who later did or did not develop type 2 diabetes over time, and to assess the extent to which inclusion of predictive metabolites could improve risk prediction.MethodsWe established a nested case–control study within the Swedish prospective population-based Västerbotten Intervention Programme cohort. Using untargeted liquid chromatography-MS metabolomics, we analysed plasma samples from 503 case–control pairs at baseline (a median time of 7 years prior to diagnosis) and samples from a subset of 187 case–control pairs at 10 years of follow-up. Discriminative metabolites between cases and controls at baseline were optimally selected using a multivariate data analysis pipeline adapted for large-scale metabolomics. Conditional logistic regression was used to assess associations between discriminative metabolites and future type 2 diabetes, adjusting for several known risk factors. Reproducibility of identified metabolites was estimated by intra-class correlation over the 10 year period among the subset of healthy participants; their systematic changes over time in relation to diagnosis among those who developed type 2 diabetes were investigated using mixed models. Risk prediction performance of models made from different predictors was evaluated using area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, discrimination improvement index and net reclassification index.ResultsWe identified 46 predictive plasma metabolites of type 2 diabetes. Among novel findings, phosphatidylcholines (PCs) containing odd-chain fatty acids (C19:1 and C17:0) and 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate were associated with the likelihood of developing type 2 diabetes; we also confirmed previously identified predictive biomarkers. Identified metabolites strongly correlated with insulin resistance and/or beta cell dysfunction. Of 46 identified metabolites, 26 showed intermediate to high reproducibility among healthy individuals. Moreover, PCs with odd-chain fatty acids, branched-chain amino acids, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid and glutamate changed over time along with disease progression among diabetes cases. Importantly, we found that a combination of five of the most robustly predictive metabolites significantly improved risk prediction if added to models with an a priori defined set of traditional risk factors, but only a marginal improvement was achieved when using models based on optimally selected traditional risk factors.Conclusions/interpretationPredictive metabolites may improve understanding of the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes and reflect disease progression, but they provide limited incremental value in risk prediction beyond optimal use of traditional risk factors.
Aims/hypothesis The aims of the present work were to identify plasma metabolites that predict future type 2 diabetes, to investigate the changes in identified metabolites among individuals who later did or did not develop type 2 diabetes over time, and to assess the extent to which inclusion of predictive metabolites could improve risk prediction. Methods We established a nested case-control study within the Swedish prospective population-based Västerbotten Intervention Programme cohort. Using untargeted liquid chromatography-MS metabolomics, we analysed plasma samples from 503 casecontrol pairs at baseline (a median time of 7 years prior to diagnosis) and samples from a subset of 187 case-control pairs at 10 years of follow-up. Discriminative metabolites between cases and controls at baseline were optimally selected using a multivariate data analysis pipeline adapted for large-scale metabolomics. Conditional logistic regression was used to assess associations between discriminative metabolites and future type 2 diabetes, adjusting for several known risk factors. Reproducibility of identified metabolites was estimated by intra-class correlation over the 10 year period among the subset of healthy participants; their systematic changes over time in relation to diagnosis among those who developed type 2 diabetes were investigated using mixed models. Risk prediction performance of models made from different predictors was evaluated using area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, discrimination improvement index and net reclassification index. Results We identified 46 predictive plasma metabolites of type 2 diabetes. Among novel findings, phosphatidylcholines (PCs) containing odd-chain fatty acids (C19:1 and C17:0) and 2-hydroxyethanesulfonate were associated with the likelihood of developing type 2 diabetes; we also confirmed previously identified predictive biomarkers. Identified metabolites strongly correlated with insulin resistance and/or beta cell dysfunction. Of 46 identified metabolites, 26 showed intermediate to high reproducibility among healthy individuals. Moreover, PCs with odd-chain fatty acids, branched-chain amino acids, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid and glutamate changed over time along with disease progression among diabetes cases. Importantly, we found that a combination of five of the most robustly predictive metabolites significantly improved risk prediction if added to models with an a priori defined set of traditional risk factors, but only a marginal improvement was achieved when using models based on optimally selected traditional risk factors. Diabetologia (2018) 61:849-861 https://doi.org/10.1007/s00125-017-4521-y Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (https://doi.org/10.1007/s00125-017-4521-y) contains peer-reviewed but unedited supplementary material, which is available to authorised users.
Objectives ::: This study aims to evaluate combined proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) spectroscopy and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabolic profiling approaches, for discriminating between mustard airway diseases (MADs) and healthy controls and for providing biochemical information on this disease. ::: ::: ::: Materials and Methods ::: In the present study, analysis of serum samples collected from 17 MAD subjects and 12 healthy controls was performed using NMR. Of these subjects, 14 (8 patients and 6 controls) were analyzed by GC-MS. Then, their spectral profiles were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA) and orthogonal partial least squares regression discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA). ::: ::: ::: Results ::: A panel of twenty eight metabolite biomarkers was generated for MADs, sixteen NMR-derived metabolites (3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyrate, lactic acid, lysine, glutamic acid, proline, hydroxyproline, dimethylamine, creatine, citrulline, choline, acetic acid, acetoacetate, cholesterol, alanine, and lipid (mainly VLDL)) and twelve GC-MS-derived metabolites (threonine, phenylalanine, citric acid, myristic acid, pentadecanoic acid, tyrosine, arachidonic acid, lactic acid, propionic acid, 3-hydroxybutyric acid, linoleic acid, and oleic acid). This composite biomarker panel could effectively discriminate MAD subjects from healthy controls, achieving an area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) values of 1 and 0.79 for NMR and GC-MS, respectively. ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: In the present study, a robust panel of twenty-eight biomarkers for detecting MADs was established. This panel is involved in three metabolic pathways including aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, arginine, and proline metabolism, and synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies, and could differentiate MAD subjects from healthy controls with a higher accuracy.
This study aims to evaluate combined proton nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H NMR) spectroscopy and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) metabolic profiling approaches, for discriminating between mustard airway diseases (MADs) and healthy controls and for providing biochemical information on this disease. Materials and Methods: In the present study, analysis of serum samples collected from 17 MAD subjects and 12 healthy controls was performed using NMR. Of these subjects, 14 (8 patients and 6 controls) were analyzed by GC-MS. Then, their spectral profiles were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA) and orthogonal partial least squares regression discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA). Results: A panel of twenty eight metabolite biomarkers was generated for MADs, sixteen NMR-derived metabolites (3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, 3-hydroxyisobutyrate, lactic acid, lysine, glutamic acid, proline, hydroxyproline, dimethylamine, creatine, citrulline, choline, acetic acid, acetoacetate, cholesterol, alanine, and lipid (mainly VLDL)) and twelve GC-MS-derived metabolites (threonine, phenylalanine, citric acid, myristic acid, pentadecanoic acid, tyrosine, arachidonic acid, lactic acid, propionic acid, 3-hydroxybutyric acid, linoleic acid, and oleic acid). This composite biomarker panel could effectively discriminate MAD subjects from healthy controls, achieving an area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) values of 1 and 0.79 for NMR and GC-MS, respectively. Conclusion: In the present study, a robust panel of twenty-eight biomarkers for detecting MADs was established. This panel is involved in three metabolic pathways including aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, arginine, and proline metabolism, and synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies, and could differentiate MAD subjects from healthy controls with a higher accuracy.
BACKGROUND AND AIM ::: L-carnitine (L-CA) has been used therapeutically to treat hepatic encephalopathy with hyperammonemia, but the mechanism by which L-CA contributes to ammonia detoxification in the brain is still unclear. Thus, the cytotoxicity and changes in intracellular amino acids (AAs) in astrocytes with hyperammonemia following L-CA administration were studied. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Human astrocytes were treated with ammonium chloride (NH4 Cl), L-CA or a mixture of NH4 Cl, and L-CA under defined conditions. Total intracellular reactive oxygen species and lactate dehydrogenase leakage were measured following different treatment periods. The intracellular levels of AAs in astrocytes were determined using metabolomic analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Intracellular total reactive oxygen species and lactate dehydrogenase leakage were significantly increased after treatment with NH4 Cl. In contrast, co-treatment with L-CA significantly inhibited the cytotoxic effects of NH4 Cl. The intracellular levels of almost all AAs involving glutamine and branched-chain AAs (BCAAs) were significantly increased in the NH4 Cl-treated cells compared with in the control cells; these changes in BCAA levels were reduced with L-CA co-treatment. Additionally, the level of 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, which is a metabolite from isoleucine and plays a critical role in neurological damage, was significantly increased in the NH4 Cl-treated cells, but this metabolite was significantly decreased with L-CA co-treatment. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: L-CA protects human astrocytes from ammonia-induced acute cytotoxic effects and the increased intracellular levels of glutamine and BCAAs.
Here, we found that formate, an essential one-carbon metabolite, activates superoxide (O2·-)/hydrogen peroxide (H2 O2 ) release from mitochondria. Sodium formate (30 μm) induces a significant increase in O2·-/H2 O2 production in liver mitochondria metabolizing pyruvate (50 μm). At concentrations deemed to be toxic, formate does not increase O2·-/H2 O2 production further. It was observed that the formate-mediated increase in O2·-/H2 O2 production is not associated with cytochrome c oxidase (COX) inhibition or changes in membrane potential and NAD(P)H levels. Sodium formate supplementation increases phosphorylating respiration without altering proton leaks. Finally, it was observed that the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH) inhibitors 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (KMV) and CPI-613 inhibit the formate-induced increase in pyruvate-driven ROS production. The importance of these findings in one-carbon metabolism and physiology are discussed herein.
Seven α-keto acids, pyruvic acid (PYR), 2-oxobutyric acid (KB), 3-methyl-2-oxobutyric acid (MKBA), 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (K3MVA), 4-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (K4MVA), 2- oxoglutaric acid (KG) and Phenyl pyruvic acid (PPY) as derivatives of 2,3-diamino-2,3- dimethybutane (DDB) were separated by HPLC column Zorbax C-18 (4.6x150 mm-id). The compounds were eluted with methanol-water-acetonitrile (40:58:2 V/V/V) with flow rate 1 ml/min. UV detection was carried out by photodiode array at 255 nm. Linear calibration plots were obtained with 0.1 to 60 µg/ml with limits of detection (LoD) within 0.04-0.4 µg/ml. The method was applied for the analysis of α-keto acids from serum of diabetic patients with blood glucose level 430-458 mg/dl and healthy volunteers. The amounts of α-keto acids observed 3.24- 9.71 µg/ml with RSD 1.1-1.9% in diabetic patients were higher than healthy volunteer's 0.11-1.3 µg/ml with RSD 0.9-2.6%.
Here, we found that formate, an essential one-carbon metabolite, activates superoxide (O production is not associated with cytochrome c oxidase (COX) inhibition or changes in membrane potential and NAD(P)H levels. Sodium formate supplementation increases phosphorylating respiration without altering proton leaks. Finally, it was observed that the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH) inhibitors 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (KMV) and CPI-613 inhibit the formate-induced increase in pyruvate-driven ROS production. The importance of these findings in one-carbon metabolism and physiology are discussed herein.
1. ::: ::: The condensation of aldehydes or ketones with N-acylglycines with subsequent hydrolysis of the resulting azlactones of 2-(acylamino)-3-alkyl(or aryl) acrylic acids must be regarded as another general method for the synthesis of α-keto acids. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The synthesis of 3-methyl-2-oxobutyric acid by condensation of acetone with hippuric acid and subsequent hydrolysis of the azlactone was repeated. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: A new synthesis of 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid is described, namely, condensation of butanone with hippuric acid and subsequent hydrolysis of the resulting azlactone of 2-benzamido-3-methyl-2-pentenoic acid.
The present study investigated (1) the free amino acid (FAA) composition in semen of rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss and carp Cyprinus carpio, (2) enzyme systems involved in amino acid metabolism and (3) the effect of amino acids on sperm viability under in vitro storage conditions. In the seminal plasma of O. mykiss, the main FAAs were arginine, glutamic acid, isoleucine, leucine, methionine and proline, in spermatozoa cysteine, arginine and methionine. In the seminal plasma of C. carpio, the main FAAs were alanine, arginine, cysteine, glutamic acid, histidine, leucine, lysine, methionine and proline, in spermatozoa arginine, glutamic acid, histidine, leucine and lysine. When spermatozoa were incubated for 48 h together with the seminal plasma, the quantitative amino acid pattern changed in both species indicating their metabolism. In spermatozoa and seminal plasma of O. mykiss and C. carpio, the following enzymes were found to be related to amino acid metabolism: transaminases (specific for alanine, aspartate, isoleucine and leucine), decarboxylases (specific for valine and lysine), glutamate dehydrogenase and α-keto acid dehydrogenases (substrates: 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid and 4-methyl-2-oxovalerate). These data demonstrate that amino acid catabolism by transamination, decarboxylation and oxidative deamination can occur in semen of the two species. Also activity of methionine sulphoxide reductase was detected, an enzyme which reduces methionine sulphoxide to methionine. This reaction plays an important role in antioxidant defence. To determine the effect of FAAs on the sperm viability, C. carpio and O. mykiss spermatozoa were incubated in sperm motility inhibiting saline solution containing different amino acids. Methionine had a positive effect on the sperm viability in both species. Taken together this result with the in vivo occurrence of methionine and of methionine reductase in semen, it can be assumed that this amino acid plays an important role in antioxidant defence. Also isoleucine in O. mykiss and leucine in C. carpio had a positive effect on sperm viability. As seminal plasma and spermatozoa of the two species exhibit enzyme activities to catabolize leucine and isoleucine, they might serve as additional energy resources especially during prolonged incubation and storage periods.
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDHC) and α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) are important sources of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In addition, it has been found that mitochondria can also serve as sinks for cellular hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). However, the ROS forming and quenching capacity of liver mitochondria has never been thoroughly examined. Here, we show that mouse liver mitochondria use catalase, glutathione (GSH), and peroxiredoxin (PRX) systems to quench ROS. Incubation of mitochondria with catalase inhibitor 3-amino-1,2,4-triazole (triazole) induced a significant increase in pyruvate or α-ketoglutarate driven O2-/H2O2 formation. 1-Choro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB), which depletes glutathione (GSH), elicited a similar effect. Auranofin (AF), a thioredoxin reductase-2 (TR2) inhibitor which disables the PRX system, did not significantly change O2-/H2O2 formation. By contrast catalase, GSH, and PRX were all required to scavenging extramitochondrial H2O2. In this study, the ROS forming potential of PDHC, KGDHC, Complex I, and Complex III was also profiled. Titration of mitochondria with 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (KMV), a specific inhibitor for O2-/H2O2 production by KGDHC, induced a ~86% and ~84% decrease in ROS production during α-ketoglutarate and pyruvate oxidation. Titration of myxothiazol, a Complex III inhibitor, decreased O2-/H2O2 formation by ~45%. Rotenone also lowered ROS production in mitochondria metabolizing pyruvate or α-ketoglutarate indicating that Complex I does not contribute to ROS production during forward electron transfer from NADH. Taken together, our results indicate that KGDHC and Complex III are high capacity sites for O2-/H2O2 production in mouse liver mitochondria. We also confirm that catalase plays a role in quenching either exogenous or intramitochondrial H2O2.
The determination of α-keto acids has clinical importance, because these are intermediates in a number of biochemical processes. This work reports the development of an HPLC procedure for the analysis α-keto acids in blood and urine samples after derivatization with 4-nitro-1,2- phenylenediamine (NPD). Nine α-keto acids: glyoxylic acid (GA), pyruvic acid (PYR), 2- oxobutyric acid (KB), 3-methyl-2-oxobutyric acid (MKBA), 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (K3MVA), 2-oxoglutaric acid (KG), 4-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (K4MVA), 2-oxohexanoic acid (KHA) and phenylpyruvic acid (PPY) were derivatized with (NPD) at pH 3 and separated on a Zorbax 300 SB-C18 HPLC column (4.6x150mm id) and photodiode array detection at 255 nm. The isocratic elution was performed with methanol: water: acetonitrile (42: 56:2, v/ v/ v) with a flow rate 0.9 mL/min. The keto acids separated within 14 min. The method was repeatable with a relative standard deviation (RSD) of 0.1-2.9% for each of the α-keto acids. The limits of detection and quantitation were obtained within the range 0.05-0.26 µg/ mL and 0.15-0.8 µg/ mL respectively. The method was applied for determination of α-keto acids from a pharmaceutical preparation, human serum and urine samples of healthy volunteers and diabetic patients. The results were further confirmed by standard addition technique. The method is rapid and simple and is suitable for the separation and determination of α-keto acids from clinical samples.
Abstract Traditional AA dose-response studies utilize many animals for evaluation of growth performance, and it is hypothesized that a new experimental design based on modern analytical techniques can reduce the number of used animals. The objective was to evaluate a short-term approach with a low number of pigs based on plasma metabolites as a method to determine the dietary Ile, Leu, and Val requirements. Three separate 6 × 6 Latin square experiments having 6 replicates per treatment were conducted with 6 diets containing increasing concentrations of Ile, Leu, and Val which were fed to 6 pigs (BW 8–9 kg) for 2 days, each without a wash-out period for a period of 12 days. The diets were prepared and used in 3 previous traditional-design dose-response studies and had been stored at −20 °C. Blood samples were collected at the end of each 2-day period, and plasma was analyzed for AA and other metabolites using a metabolomics approach. Out of the 18 analyzed plasma AA, 11, 16, and 3 AA for Ile, Leu, or Val, respectively, showed linear or quadratic responses ( P 0.05) which could be linked to animal growth. The same was found for 4 non-AA metabolites in the Ile, and for 7 non-AA metabolites in the Leu study. 3-Methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, ketohexanoic acid, and α-ketoisovaleric acid were discriminating metabolites for both Ile and Leu. It was possible to fit least squares means of 5, 14, and 2 metabolites in the Ile, Leu, and Val experiments to curvilinear-plateau, broken-line, or quadratic models and thereby estimate an optimum dietary BCAA level. The average optimum BCAA levels across metabolites and models were 0.54 standardized ileal digestible (SID) Ile:Lys, 1.04 SID Leu:Lys, and 0.68 SID Val:Lys which were close to optimums of 0.52, 0.93, and 0.70 found in the previous dose-response studies based on animal growth performance. In conclusion, certain plasma metabolites could be used to estimate Ile, Leu, and Val requirements, and 2 days of adaptation to a new diet was sufficient to reflect relevant biological changes in the blood to different levels of dietary AA in the current study.
Abstract KangFuXinYe (KFX), the ethanol extract of the dried whole body of Periplaneta americana, is a well-known important Chinese medicine preparation that has been used to treat digestive diseases such as gastric ulcers for many years in China. However, its therapeutic effect and mechanism are not yet well understood. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the gastro-protective effects of KangFuXinYe (KFX) in indomethacin-induced gastric damage. Rats were randomly divided into six groups as follows: control, treated with indomethacin (35 mg·kg−1), different dosages of KFX (2.57, 5.14 and 10.28 mL·kg−1, respectively) plus indomethacin, and sucralfate (1.71 mL·kg−1) plus indomethacin. After treatment, rat serum, stomach and gastric homogenates were collected for biochemical tests and examination of histopathology firstly. Rat serum was further used for metabolomics analysis to research possible mechanisms. Our results showed that KFX treatment alleviated indomethacin-induced histopathologic damage in rat gastric mucosa. Meanwhile, its treatment significantly increased cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) levels in rat serum and gastric mucosa. Moreover, KFX decreased cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels. Nine metabolites were identified which intensities significantly changed in gastric damage rats, including 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, indoxylsulfuric acid, indolelactic acid, 4-hydroxyindole, pantothenic acid, isobutyryl carnitine, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, sphingosine 1-phosphate, and indometacin. These metabolic deviations came to closer to normal levels after KFX intervention. The results indicate that KFX (10.28 mL·kg−1) exerts protective effects on indomethacin-induced gastric damage by possible mechanisms of action (regulating tryptophan metabolism, protecting the mitochondria, and adjusting lipid metabolism, and reducing excessive indomethacin).
KangFuXinYe (KFX), the ethanol extract of the dried whole body of Periplaneta americana, is a well-known important Chinese medicine preparation that has been used to treat digestive diseases such as gastric ulcers for many years in China. However, its therapeutic effect and mechanism are not yet well understood. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the gastroprotective effects of KangFuXinYe (KFX) in indomethacin-induced gastric damage. Rats were randomly divided into six groups as follows: control, treated with indomethacin (35 mg·kg −1 ), different dosages of KFX (2.57, 5.14 and 10.28 mL·kg −1 , respectively) plus indomethacin, and sucralfate (1.71 mL·kg −1 ) plus indomethacin. After treatment, rat serum, stomach and gastric homogenates were collected for biochemical tests and examination of histopathology firstly. Rat serum was further used for metabolomics analysis to research possible mechanisms. Our results showed that KFX treatment alleviated indomethacin-induced histopathologic damage in rat gastric mucosa. Meanwhile, its treatment significantly increased cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), prostaglandin E 2 (PGE 2 ) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) levels in rat serum and gastric mucosa. Moreover, KFX decreased cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels. Nine metabolites were identified which intensities significantly changed in gastric damage rats, including 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, indoxylsulfuric acid, indolelactic acid, 4-hydroxyindole, pantothenic acid, isobutyryl carnitine, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, sphingosine 1-phosphate, and indometacin. These metabolic deviations came to closer to normal levels after KFX intervention.
An analytical method which offers accurate determination and identification of eight α-keto acids (α-ketoglutaric acid, pyruvic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid, 3-methyl-2-oxobutyric acid, α-keto-γ-methylthiobutyric acid, 4-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, and phenylpyruvic acid) in pork meat and Iberian ham samples is reported. The method utilises a highly selective and sensitive method of multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) by mass spectrometry. The analytical method is simple (although the chemical derivatisation of the α-keto acids with dansylhydrazine is required), precise (<18% RSD), accurate (90-110%), sensitive (0.01-0.34 mg/kg of defatted and freeze-dried meat depending on the α-keto acid) and linear (R>0.99) over several orders of magnitude (until 0.01-146.1 mg/kg of defatted and freeze-dried meat depending on the α-keto acid). Using this methodology, α-keto acids were found to be present in pork meat to a low extent, and their concentration increased when they were determined in Iberian ham. This is the first report of the presence of α-keto acids in both pork meats and Iberian hams.
The metabolic response in plasma and urine of pigs when feeding an optimum level of branched chain amino acids (BCAAs) for best growth performance is unknown. The objective of the current study was to identify the metabolic phenotype associated with the BCAAs intake level that could be linked to the animal growth performance. Three dose–response studies were carried out to collect blood and urine samples from pigs fed increasing levels of Ile, Val, or Leu followed by a nontargeted LC–MS approach to characterize the metabolic profile of biofluids when dietary BCAAs are optimum for animal growth. Results showed that concentrations of plasma hypoxanthine and tyrosine (Tyr) were higher while concentrations of glycocholic acid, tauroursodeoxycholic acid, and taurocholic acid were lower when the dietary Ile was optimum. Plasma 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid and creatine were lower when dietary Leu was optimum. The optimum dietary Leu resulted in increased urinary excretion of ascorbic acid and choline and relativel...
Methyl malonic acid and branched-chain keto acids are important biomarkers for the diagnosis of cobalamin deficiencies and maple syrup urine disease. We report the development and validation of a HILIC-ESI-MS2 method for the quantification of these organic acids from neonatal urine. The samples were 100 times diluted and analyzed on a ZIC- ILIC column with 25-mM formic acid in water: 25-mM formic acid in acetonitrile (45:55) at a flow rate of 0.8 mL/min with a runtime of only 6 minutes. The method demonstrated a lower limit of detection of 10 ng/mL, Limit of Quantification (LOQ) of 50 ng/mL, linearity of r2 ≥ 0.990 and recoveries of 87–105% for all analytes.The intraday and interday precision CV’s were <10% and 12%, respectively. Extensive stability studies demonstrated the analytes to be stable in stock and in matrix with a percent change within ±15%. The Bland–Altman analysis of the developed method with the gold standard GCMS method demonstrated a bias of 0.44, 0.11, 0.009 and –0.19 for methyl malonic acid, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, 2- ydroxy-3methylbutyric acid and 4-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, respectively, proving the methods are comparable. The newly developed method involves no derivatization and has a simple sample preparation and a low runtime, enabling it to be easily automated with a high sample throughput in a cost-effective manner
Auriculamide is the first natural product known from the predatory bacterium Herpetosiphon aurantiacus. It is composed of three unusual building blocks, including the non-proteinogenic amino acid 3-chloro-L-tyrosine, the α-hydroxy acid L-isoleucic acid, and a methylmalonyl-CoA-derived ethane unit. A candidate genetic locus for auriculamide biosynthesis was identified and encodes four enzymes. Among them, the non-canonical 199 kDa four-domain nonribosomal peptide synthetase, AulA, is extraordinary in that it features two consecutive adenylation domains. Here, we describe the functional characterization of the recombinantly produced AulA. The observed activation of 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid by the enzyme supports the hypothesis that it participates in the biosynthesis of auriculamide. An artificially truncated version of AulA that lacks the first adenylation domain activated this substrate like the full-length enzyme which shows that the first adenylation domain is dispensable. Additionally, we provide evidence that the enzyme tolerates structural variation of the substrate. α-Carbon substituents significantly affected the substrate turnover. While all tested aliphatic α-keto acids were accepted by the enzyme and minor differences in chain size and branches did not interfere with the enzymatic activity, molecules with methylene α-carbons led to low turnover. Such enzymatic plasticity is an important attribute to help in the perpetual search for novel molecules and to access a greater structural diversity by mutasynthesis.
Auriculamide is the first natural product known from the predatory bacterium Herpetosiphon aurantiacus. It is composed of three unusual building blocks, including the non-proteinogenic amino acid 3-chloro-L-tyrosine, the α-hydroxy acid L-isoleucic acid, and a methylmalonyl-CoA-derived ethane unit. A candidate genetic locus for auriculamide biosynthesis was identified and encodes four enzymes. Among them, the non-canonical 199 kDa four-domain nonribosomal peptide synthetase, AulA, is extraordinary in that it features two consecutive adenylation domains. Here, we describe the functional characterization of the recombinantly produced AulA. The observed activation of 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid by the enzyme supports the hypothesis that it participates in the biosynthesis of auriculamide. An artificially truncated version of AulA that lacks the first adenylation domain activated this substrate like the full-length enzyme which shows that the first adenylation domain is dispensable. Additionally, we provide evidence that the enzyme tolerates structural variation of the substrate. α-Carbon substituents significantly affected the substrate turnover. While all tested aliphatic α-keto acids were accepted by the enzyme and minor differences in chain size and branches did not interfere with the enzymatic activity, molecules with methylene α-carbons led to low turnover. Such enzymatic plasticity is an important attribute to help in the perpetual search for novel molecules and to access a greater structural diversity by mutasynthesis.
Since the lack of a genetic system for H. aurantiacus makes the use of reverse genetics prohibitive, we sought to provide biochemical evidence for the participation of this unusual NRPS in the biosynthesis of 1. AulA is suggested to incorporate L-isoleucic acid (= 2-hydroxy-3-methylvaleric acid). The domain architecture indicates the substrate undergoes no other chemical modification besides a reductive step after being tethered to the PCP domain by the PKS-type ketoreductase domain (KR), as reported for other natural products, such as pyridomycin [11], cereulide, valinomycin [12], and bacillaene [13] . Hence, the molecule to be recognized and activated by AulA would be 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid (3).
Our biochemical in vitro results highlight AulA as apt to take part on a NRPS/PKS complex for the biosynthesis of auriculamide, given the activation of 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid by its second adenylation domain. Our results also contribute to hone algorithms used to predict substrates from nonribosomal codes. Moreover, we describe how this enzyme is pliant to minor structural variations of that molecule, enabling future attempts to generate auriculamide analogues as potential new drug candidates.
AbstractBacillus amyloliquefaciens LZN01 shows antagonistic behaviour against Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum (Fon). This study aimed to analyze the antifungal activity and the functional components of cell-free supernatant from B. amyloliquefaciens LZN01 that inhibited Fon growth. The results showed that the cell-free supernatant (CFS) from the death phase had stronger antifungal activity against Fon compared to those from the exponential stage and stationary phase. The analyses from scanning and transmission electron microscopy demonstrated that treatment with CFS led to cellular morphological changes, including concave formations on the conidial surface, the disruption of cell walls and membranes, the leakage of intracellular contents and the aggregation of organelles. Confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that the CFS damaged membrane integrity. Myriocin, sphingofungin E, sphingofungin F, 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid, gabapentin and sphingofungin C were confirmed as the major differential metabol...
