The mechanism of inactivation of gamma-aminobutyric acid aminotransferase (GABA-AT) by L-3-chloroalanine hydroxamate (1) was investigated. Inactivation of [3H]PLP-reconstituted GABA-AT with 1 followed by denaturation gave no PMP or enamine adduct to the PLP; however, a new unknown metabolite was observed which was identical to the metabolite formed upon inactivation of GABA-AT by L-cycloserine. Time-dependent inactivation occurs, but the kinetics are second order; the rate of inactivation increases with time. After inactivation occurs the addition of fresh enzyme results in a faster rate of inactivation than prior to the initial inactivation. This indicates that the actual inactivator is generated from L-3-chloroalanine hydroxamate, and is not L-3-chloroalanine hydroxamate itself. Added gabaculine-inactivated enzyme to fresh enzyme does not increase the rate of inactivation, suggesting that the conversion of L-3-chloroalanine hydroxamate to the active form is not catalyzed by peripheral amino acid residues. L-3-Chloroalanine hydroxamate was shown to undergo buffer-catalyzed cyclization to L-cycloserine, which is the actual inactivator of GABA-AT.
3-Chloro-d-alanine chloride-lyase, which occurs in the cells of Pseudomonas putida CR 1-1, catalyzes the β-replacement reaction of 3-chloro-d-alanine in the presence of a high concentration of sodium hydrosulfide to form d-cysteine. Using the β-replacement reaction, the synthesis of d- cysteine from a racemate of 3-chloroalanine by resting cells was investigated. In order to depress the synthesis of l-cysteine from 3-chloro-l-alanine and the enzymatic degradation of 3-chloro-l- alanine, treatment of the cells with 5mM phenylhydrazine was utilized. Under the optimal conditions, 94% of the added 3-chloro-d-alanine could be converted to d-cysteine and 81% of the added 3-chloro-l-alanine was recovered.
The D- and L-isomers of 3-chloroalanine inhibit the growth of Diplococcus pneumoniae, Strep- tococcus pyogenes, Bacillus subtilis, and Escherichia coli. With pneumococcus the inhibition by /-chloro-D-alanine is completely prevented by either D-alanine or D-alanyl- D-alanine, while L-alanine is not effective in preventing the inhibition. The inhibition of growth by f-chloro-)L-alanine is not affected by D-alanine and is only partially prevented by high concentrations of L-alanine. The intracellular free alanine in untreated E. coli and B. subtilis is about 95% in the D-configuration while the free intracellular alanine in both organisms after treatment with ,-chloro- D-alanine is predominantly the L-isomer. These results suggested that the 3-chloroamino acid inactivates alanine racemase (EC 5.1.1.1). Indeed, when extracts of E. coli or B. subtilis were treated with 3-chloro-D-alanine, the activities of alanine racemase and of D-glutamate-D- alanine transaminase were found to be 90-95% inhibited. Studies with mice have shown that 3-chloro-D-alanine is an effective antibacterial agent in vivo againt D. pneu- moniae, S. pyogenes, and E. coli. One of the marked differences between bacterial and mam- malian cells is that bacterial cell walls are characterized by their high content of D-amino a.cids (1), especially D-alanine (2), while the proteins of mammalian cell constituents are comprised of amino acids exclusively of the L-configuration. Several antibiotics in common usage owe their efficacy to the inhibition of pathways involved in the incorporation of D-
The ability of aspartate aminotransferase to catalyse β-elimination of α-amino acids that have a good leaving group at Cβ has been exploited in the synthesis of novel amino acids by the inclusion of appropriate nucleophiles as co-substrates. Two compounds, l-serine O-sulphate and 3-chloro-l-alanine, were used as β-elimination substrates. Nucleophiles used successfully as co-substrates were thiosulphate, 2-mercap-toethanol, mercaptoacetate and aminoethylthiopseudourea. The synthesis achieved using serine O-sulphate and thiosulphate was found to produce sulphocysteine with a yield of 70%. Circular dichroism demonstrated that the compound was a single enantiomer and, therefore, that nucleophilic addition had taken place on the enzyme. The initial rate of synthesis was 10% of the rate at which the enzyme catalyses its normal transamination reaction. The synthetic reaction was accompanied by minor side reactions that led to small amounts of additional amino acid and oxo acid products through partitions of the main reaction at two stages in the mechanism. By mutating Arg292, which is the residue that binds the distal carboxyl group of natural substrates, the wild-type enzyme was converted to a form that could discriminate completely between serine O-sulphate and chloroalanine as β-eliminating substrate. Similar alterations in nucleophile cosubstrate specificity were also observed. Whereas, for example, the wild-type enzyme catalysed syntheses between 3-chloroalanine and either mercaptoethanol or mercaptoacetate with equal facility, the Arg292Asp enzyme showed complete preference for mercaptoethanol. The system should be of general use in the synthesis of novel amino acids as single enantiomers with potentially interesting biological activities.
Abstract A mutagenic azide metabolite was purified from the medium in which Salmonella typhimurium cells were grown in the presence of azide. This metabolite was identified to be azidoalanine based on infrared and mass spectroscopy and elemental analysis. This compound appeared to be identical to the mutagenic compound synthesized in vitro from azide and O -acetylserine by partially purified O -acetylserine sulfhydrylase. The metabolite (azidoalanine) mutagenic efficiency and spectrum in S. typhimurium was similar to that of inorganic azide. The compounds 2-azidoethylamine, 2-bromoethylamine, 3-bromopropionic acid and N -(azidomethyl) phthalimide were also mutagenic with a similar spectrum to azide and azidoalanine, but with lower efficiency. The compounds 3-azidopropylamine, 4-azidobutylamine, 3-chloroalanine and ethylamine were only weakly or nonmutagenic. Numerous other chloro, bromo and azido phthalimide derivatives tested were nonmutagenic. It is suggested that the lack of azide mutagenicity (and perhaps carcinogenicity) in mammalian cells may be due to their inability to convert azide to azidoalanine.
Threonine synthase (TS), the last enzyme of the threonine biosynthetic pathway, catalyzes L-threonine formation from L-homoserine phosphate (HSerP; Km = 0.5 mM, V = 440 min-1) and DL-vinylglycine. Furthermore, TS catalyzes beta-elimination reactions with L-serine (Km = 150 mM, V = 4.7 min-1), DL-3-chloroalanine, L-threonine, and L-allo-threonine as substrates to yield pyruvate or alpha-ketobutyrate, while L-alanine, L-2-aminobutanoic acid, and L-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid are substrates for half-transamination reactions to form the pyridoxamine form of the enzyme and the corresponding alpha-keto acid. Spectral analyses of all these reactions revealed the transient formation of strongly absorbing long-wavelength chromophores (lambda max = 440-445 nm), implying the accumulation of the corresponding pyridoxaldimine p-quinonoidal intermediates. HSerP turnover was competitively inhibited by L-3-hydroxyhomoserine phosphate 1 (Ki = 0.050 mM), L-2,3-methanohomoserine phosphate 2 (Ki = 0.010 mM), L-2-amino-3-[(phosphonomethyl)thio)]propanoic acid 5 (Ki = 0.011 mM) and DL-E-2-amino-5-phosphono-4-pentenoic acid 10 (Ki = 0.54 mM). 5 and 10 induced the formation of long-wavelength quinonoidal chromophores (lambda max = 458 and 460 mm, epsilon 47,000 and 30,000 M-1 cm-1), while incubation with either 1 or 2 induced only minor spectral changes. DL-2-Amino-3-[(phosphonomethyl)amino)]propanoic acid inactivated TS (Ki = 0.057 mM, kinact = 1.44 min-1) with 1:1 stoichiometry, transient formation of a 450-nm chromophore, and finally bleaching of any absorbance at wavelengths longer than 320 nm. Z-2-Amino-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid 8 is the unusual amino acid found in the peptide antibiotics of the plumbemicin and rhizocticin families. Racemic 8 irreversibly inhibited TS (Ki = 0.1 mM, kinact = 1.50 min-1) with 1:1 stoichiometry and the concomitant formation of a 482-nm chromophore (epsilon approximately 30,000 M-1 cm-1). DL-E-2-Amino-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid was a less potent irreversible inhibitor of TS (Ki = 0.4 mM, kinact = 0.25 min-1), inducing absorption maxima at 462 and 500 nm. The acetylenic amino acid DL-2-amino-5-phosphono-4-pentynoic acid 12 bound to TS (KD = 0.38 mM) forming a quinonoidal chromophore (lambda max = 452 nm, epsilon approximately 30,000 M-1 cm-1), but inhibition of the enzyme by 12 could not be detected under assay conditions even at high inhibitor concentrations. Mechanisms consistent with these observations are proposed.
The investigation of the combination of enzymatic and chemical synthetic processes for the production of useful compounds has been carried out. This review focuses on the enzymatic transformation of chemically synthesized 3-chloroalanine into useful amino acids.
Abstract The mechanism of inactivation of γ-aminobutyric acid aminotransferase (GABA-AT) by l -3-chloroalanine hydroxamate (1) was investigated. Inactivation of [ 3 H]PLP-reconstituted GABA-AT with 1 followed by denaturation gave no PMP or enamine adduct to the PLP; however, a new unknown metabolite was observed which was identical to the metabolite formed upon inactivation of GABA-AT by l -cycloserine. Time-dependent inactivation occurs, but the kinetics are second order; the rate of inactivation increases with time. After inactivation occurs the addition of fresh enzyme results in a faster rate of inactivation than prior to the initial inactivation. This indicates that the actual inactivator is generated from l -3-chloroalanine hydroxamate, and is not l -3-chloroalanine hydroxamate itself. Added gabaculine-inactivated enzyme to fresh enzyme does not increase the rate of inactivation, suggesting that the conversion of l -3-chloroalanine hydroxamate to the active form is not catalyzed by peripheral amino acid residues. l -3-Chloroalanine hydroxamate was shown to undergo buffer-catalyzed cyclization to l -cycloserine, which is the actual inactivator of GABA-AT.
Tyrosine phenol-lyase (TPL) catalyzes the reversible hydrolysis of tyrosine to phenol and ammonium pyruvate (Scheme 1) [9]. Pyridoxal 5’-phosphate is a cofactor of the enzyme. TPL has been found in various bacteria, mostly in Enterobacteriaceae and also in some arthropods. The enzyme catalyzes β-elimination of a number of 3-substituted amino acids with good leaving groups, as, for example, Oand S-derivatives of serine and cysteine, 3-chloroalanine [7]. TPL also racemizes alanine [6] and exchanges α-proton with a solvent in some other amino acids [4]. The enzyme catalyzes reverse reaction of the synthesis of tyrosine and its derivatives starting form various phenol and pyruvate derivatives [11]. The mechanism of TPL action consists of several steps [9], main transitions are drawn in Scheme 2. The first step is the formation of external aldimine − the Schiff base between tyrosine and PLP, which is followed by the abstraction of α-proton leading to the quinoid intermediate. Subsequently, ring-1’ carbon is protonated and the phenol moiety is converted to cyclohexadieCarbon isotope effects in the studies of the mechanism of action of tyrosine phenol-lyase Wojciech Augustyniak, Ryszard Kanski, Marianna Kanska
Abstract Ascorbalamic acid (C 9 H 13 NO 8 ) was isolated from Brassica olerocea L. MS study of various methylated derivatives suggested a structure (Ia) derivable by CC coupling of C-3 of alanine with C-2 of ascorbic acid, followed by lactone → lactam rearrangement. Other derivatives provided supporting evidence, as did study of the reaction of L -3-chloroalanine with L -ascorbic acid in vitro . On treatment with hot 6 M HCl, ascorbalamic acid yielded L -aspartic acid and 3-(2-furoyl)alanine. For identification of the latter, DL -3-(2-furoyl)alanine and its N-2,4-dinitrophenyl and N-acetyl methyl ester derivatives were synthesized. Unlike ascorbigens, ascorbalamic acid is probably present in the living plant. It seemed to be present in all crucifers examined, but to have a capricious distribution in other orders. During permethylation, rearrangements of ester groups were observed, both with ascorbalamic acid and with pyrrolidonecarboxylic acid as a model.
To assess the role of specific lipids in the barrier further, we have used inhibitors oflipid synthesis. Blocking the synthesis of cholesterol with competitive inhibitors of HMG CoA reductase, such as lovastatin or fluvastatin, delays barrier recovery after acetone treatment, which is associated with a decrease in the return of cholesterol to the stratum corneum (7, 8) . More- over, either mevalonate, the immediate product ofthe enzyme, or cholesterol, the final product of the biosynthetic pathway overcomes the inhibition and restores barrier recovery to normal indicating that the delay in barrier recovery is due to the inhibition of HMG CoA reductase (7) . Likewise, inhibition of sphingolipid synthesis, with ,B-choloroalanine, an inhibitor of serine palmitoyl transferase, delays barrier repair (9) . The decrease in barrier repair in the ,B-chloroalanine-treated animals is associated with a decrease in the return of sphingolipids to the stratum corneum (9) . Barrier repair rates are normalized by providing exogenous sphingolipids demonstrating that the effect of 3-chloroalanine on barrier repair is due to sphingolipid synthesis inhibition rather than a nonspecific toxic effect (9) .
Inhibition of ceramide synthase in cultured cells or in vivo -reduces cellular levels of complex sphingolipids and increases the amounts of free sphingoid bases (sphinganine, and sometimes sphingosine) (Wang et ai., 1992; Riley et ai., 1993). Both probably contribute to the cellular effects of FB I because many members of this class of lipids play key roles in cell growth, differentiation, and the regulation of programmed cell death (apoptosis) (Merrill and Sweeley, 1996; Spiegel and Merrill, 1996; Hannun, 1997) . Nonetheless, an in-depth analysis of the effects of FBI on LLC-PKI cells (Yoo et ai., 1996) has concluded that the initial growth inhibition and cytotoxicity of FB I is due to the accumulation of sphinganine, a highly cytotoxic compound (Stevens et ai., 1990). A limitation of these studies, however, was the use of l3-chloroalanine to inhibit 004I-008X!98 525.00
