• Variations in tissue development and spatial composition have a major impact on the nutritional and organoleptic qualities of ripe fleshy fruit, including melon (Cucumis melo). To gain a deeper insight into the mechanisms involved in these changes, we identified key metabolites for rational food quality design. • The metabolome, volatiles and mineral elements were profiled employing an unprecedented range of complementary analytical technologies. Fruits were followed at a number of time points during the final ripening process and tissues were collected across the fruit flesh from rind to seed cavity. Approximately 2000 metabolite signatures and 15 mineral elements were determined in an assessment of temporal and spatial melon fruit development. • This study design enabled the identification of: coregulated hubs (including aspartic acid, 2-isopropylmalic acid, β-carotene, phytoene and dihydropseudoionone) in metabolic association networks; global patterns of coordinated compositional changes; and links of primary and secondary metabolism to key mineral and volatile fruit complements. • The results reveal the extent of metabolic interactions relevant to ripe fruit quality and thus have enabled the identification of essential candidate metabolites for the high-throughput screening of melon breeding populations for targeted breeding programmes aimed at nutrition and flavour improvement.
An aluminum(III)-binding substance (ABS), that solubilizes Al(III) at neutral pH, was found to be secreted by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A combination of anion exchange chromatography and preparative high performance liquid chromatography using an octadecylsilane (ODS) column separated ABS from the medium. The structure determination of ABS was performed using 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy and heteronuclear multiple-bond correlation (HMBC) spectroscopy, and ABS was identified to be 2-isopropylmalic acid (2-iPMA). The structure was further confirmed using high resolution electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Solubilization of otherwise sparingly soluble Al(III) by 2-iPMA at neutral pH indicated the binding of the compound with Al(III). This is supported by 27Al NMR spectrometry for a solution containing 10 mM Al(III) and 20 mM 2-iPMA at pH 6.6, where four Al(III) species were evident. Although the function of this compound is unclear, it might play a key role in Al detoxification.
M. Yao N. Sakai T. Kirita I. Tanaka Hokkaido University Division of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science Kitaku, Kita-10, Nishi-8 SAPPORO 060-0108 JAPAN Leucine biosynthesis is carried out with three steps. In the first step, 2-oxoisovaleric acid and acetyl-CoA are condensed into 2-isopropylmalic acid by isopropylmalate synthase (IPMS). The second step is the interconversion between 2-isopropylmalate and 3-isopropylmalate. At the third step, 3-isopropylmalate is changed to 2-oxoisocaproic acid by isopropylmalate dehydrogenase (IPMDH). Isopropylmalate isomerase (IPMI) catalyzes the pathway-specific reaction at the second step, and it is composed of two different subunits that are coded for by two genes of the leucine operon. We have determined the crystal structure of small subunit of IPMI from Pyrococcus horikoshii (phoIPMI-S) by Se-Met MAD method. Two crystal forms, orthorhombic (P212121) and hexagonal (P6222) of phoIPMI-S were obtained with and without reducing agent (DTT), respectively. While the crystal of orthorhombic form reflected to 2.5 Å resolution, hexagonal form reflected to 1.98 Å. The crystal structures obtained from two crystal forms show that only hexagonal form has intermolecular disulfide bonds between pairs of C-terminal cysteine residues which related by 2-fold axis of crystal symmetry. Thus those intermolecular disulfide bonds seem to contribute to stabilization of crystal packing and enhance crystal quality. The final refined structure of phoIPMI-S reveals that it consists of α -and β -domains and is most similar to C-terminal domain of aconitase which catalyzes dehydration of citrate to form isocitrate in the Krebs cycle. Structural comparison between phoIPMI-S and aconitase suggests that the specific arrangement of large and small subunits of IPMI is similar to that of N-and C-domains in aconitase. Human mitochondrial branched chain aminotransferase (hBCATm) is a pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) dependent enzyme which catalyzes reversible transamination of branched chain L-amino acids to their respective α -keto acids. The crystal structures of hBCATm, in the PLP and ketimine (with isoleucine) forms, and the PLP form of a mutant in which the two reactive cysteines have been mutated to alanine (C315A/C318A) have been determined. Under oxidizing conditions, these cysteines form a disulfide bond inhibiting the enzyme. In the native crystals the enzyme is active. The cysteines are located in a β -turn (315-318), preceded by yet another β -turn (311-314). Their side-chain distances and angles suggest that the sulfurs participate in a thiolthiolate hydrogen bond. In the mutant structure this bond cannot form, and there are changes in the backbone as well as side-chain conformations and altered hydrogen bonding at the β -turns. A hydrogen bond seen between the amide nitrogen at Ala315 and carbonyl oxygen at Gly312 is broken and a new one is formed between the side chain of Gln316 and the carbonyl oxygen at Thr313. In the PLP and the ketimine structures, Thr313 is a crucial residue involved in cofactor phosphate and substrate carboxylate stabilization. Further the inter-domain loop (171-181), which controls the access to the active site has shifted in the mutant structure such that the active site is open. It is well ordered and less mobile in both the monomers in this structure whereas it is disordered in one of the monomers of the native structures. (Funding: NIH Grant DK34738)
A significant body of evidence demonstrates that isoflavone metabolites are good markers of soy intake, while research is lacking on specific markers of other leguminous sources such as peas. In this context, the objective of our current study was to identify biomarkers of pea intake using an untargeted metabolomics approach. A randomized cross-over acute intervention study was conducted on eleven participants who consumed peas and couscous (control food) in random order. The urine samples were collected in fasting state and postprandially at regular intervals and were further analysed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-QTOF-MS). Multivariate statistical analysis resulted in robust Partial least squares Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA) models obtained for comparison of fasting against the postprandial time points (0 h vs. 4 h, (R2X = 0.41, Q2 = 0.4); 0 h vs. 6 h, ((R2X = 0.517, Q2 = 0.495)). Variables with variable importance of projection (VIP) scores ≥1.5 obtained from the PLS-DA plot were considered discriminant between the two time points. Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed to identify features with a significant time effect. Assessment of the time course profile revealed that ten features displayed a differential time course following peas consumption compared to the control food. The interesting features were tentatively identified using accurate mass data and confirmed by tandem mass spectrometry (MS using commercial spectral databases and authentic standards. 2-Isopropylmalic acid, asparaginyl valine and N-carbamoyl-2-amino-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl) acetic acid were identified as markers reflecting pea intake. The three markers also increased in a dose-dependent manner in a randomized intervention study and were further confirmed in an independent intervention study. Overall, key validation criteria were met for the successfully identified pea biomarkers. Future work will examine their use in nutritional epidemiology studies.
The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae secretes 2-isopropylmalic acid (2-iPMA), an intermediate in leucine biosynthesis. Because 2-iPMA binds Al(III) in the culture medium, it is thought to reduce toxicity by Al(III). The effects of 2-iPMA and malic acid (MA) on Al toxicity were investigated in a medium with a low pH and low concentrations of phosphates and magnesium. The reduction in the growth of S. cerevisiae observed in the presence of 100 μM Al(III) ions was relieved more by the addition of 1.0 mM 2-iPMA than by 1.0 mM MA, indicating that 2-iPMA possesses superior Al(III)-ion detoxification ability. Investigations using the wild type and the Δleu4 and Δleu9 mutant strains indicated that secretion of a sufficient level of 2-iPMA was required to enhance the Al tolerance. It is thought that 2-iPMA secreted from the yeast cells chelates Al ions and prevents them from entering the cells, resulting in Al tolerance.
Chiral 2-hydroxycarboxylic acids are compounds that have been linked to particular diseases and are putative biomarkers with some diagnostic potential. The importance of identifying whether a particular enantiomer is related to certain diseases has been encouraged recently. However, in many cases it has not yet been elucidated whether there are stereochemical implications with respect to these biomarkers and whether their enantioselective analysis provides new insights and diagnostic potential. In this study 13 disease-related chiral 2-hydrocarboxylic acids were studied for their chiral separation by high-performance liquid chromatography on three cinchona alkaloid-derived chiral stationary phases. From a subgroup of eight 2-hydroxymonocarboxylic acids, baseline resolution could be achieved and inversion of elution order by exchanging tert-butylcarbamoyl quinidine chiral stationary phase (Chiralpak QD-AX) for the corresponding quinine analogue (Chiralpak QN-AX) is shown for seven of them. Furthermore, conditions for chiral separation of the 2-hydroxydicarboxylic acids, citramalic acid, 2-isopropylmalic acid, and 2-hydroxyadipic acid are reported and compared to the previous reported conditions for 2-hydroxyglutaric acid and malic acid.
Abstract Organic acids of wine comprise one of the main taste groups, that of sourness. Two isomeric compounds with molecular weight of 176 u have been identified in wine using two LC-MS systems, LC-IT (ion trap) and LC-Q-Orbitrap. The two isomers are organic acids, 3-isopropylmalic acid (3-IPMA) never identified in wines, and 2-isopropylmalic acid (2-IPMA), never quantified in wines. After the definitive identification against the authentic standards, an analytical method for their determination in wines was optimised and validated using the LC-IT platform. Linearity was verified in the range 5–320 mg L−1 (correlation coefficients higher than 0.9914) and the recoveries obtained spiking the samples at two fortification levels were higher than 86.7%, with RSDs (n = 9) lower than 15.1%. Finally, the two compounds were quantified in ten red and white Italian wines, and average concentrations were determined at 1.78 mg L−1 (0.56–4.13) and 23.0 mg L−1 (6.7–41.6) of 3-IPMA and 2-IPMA, respectively.
Abstract Background The diagnosis of asthma in children is challenging and relies on a combination of clinical factors and biomarkers including methacholine challenge, lung function, bronchodilator responsiveness, and presence of airway inflammation. No single test is diagnostic. We sought to identify a pattern of inflammatory biomarkers that was unique to asthma using a targeted metabolomics approach combined with data science methods. Methods We conducted a nested case-control study of 100 children living in a peri-urban community in Lima, Peru. We defined cases as children with current asthma, and controls as children with no prior history of asthma and normal lung function. We further categorized enrollment following a factorial design to enroll equal numbers of children as either overweight or not. We obtained a fasting venous blood sample to characterize a comprehensive panel of targeted markers using a metabolomics approach based on high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Results A statistical comparison of targeted metabolites between children with asthma (n = 50) and healthy controls (n = 49) revealed distinct patterns in relative concentrations of several metabolites: children with asthma had approximately 40–50% lower relative concentrations of ascorbic acid, 2-isopropylmalic acid, shikimate-3-phosphate, and 6-phospho-d-gluconate when compared to children without asthma, and 70% lower relative concentrations of reduced glutathione (all p 13 077 normalized counts/second and betaine ≤ 16 47 121 normalized counts/second). Conclusions By using a metabolomics approach applied to serum, we were able to discriminate between children with and without asthma by revealing different metabolic patterns. These results suggest that serum metabolomics may represent a diagnostic tool for asthma and may be helpful for distinguishing asthma phenotypes.
Amborella (Amborella trichopoda Baill.), a short shrub native to the tropical rainforests of New Caledonia, is the only living species in the Amborellales, the earliest diverging order of flowering plants (angiosperms) [1] . Despite its widely recognized importance in understanding flowering plant phylogeny and land plant evolution, little is known about the metabolomes, in particular specialized metabolites (secondary metabolites), of Amborella. To date, only three specialized metabolites, procyanidin, kaempferol-3-O-glucoside, and kaempferol-3-O-rutinoside, have been tentatively identified from Amborella leaves according to the R f values of the compounds measured using paper and column chromatography [2] . processing, 63, 39, and 21 compounds were tentatively identified in leaves, stems, and roots of Amborella, respectively, with peak areas ranging from 5.4 × 10 6 to 2.7 × 10 10 (Tables S1-S3). In Amborella leaves, the detectable free amino acids include isoleucine, arginine, aspartic acid, glutamine, and glutamic acid as well as the three aromatic amino acids, phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, and their acetylated derivatives acetylphenylalanine and acetyltryptophan (Table S1 ). A group of organic acids including gluconate, citrate, malic acid, citramalate, 2-isopropylmalic acid, glutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid, and azelaic acid was found. Several cofactors, such as oxidized glutathione, flavin adenine dinucleotide, and riboflavin, as well as the nucleobase adenine and its nucleoside derivative adenosine, were also detected. In addition, Amborella leaves contain simple sugars (sucrose and raffinose), nucleotide sugars (UDP-glucose and UDP-xylose), and phosphate sugars (mannose 6-phosphate) (Table S1 ).
Phenylalanine serves as the biosynthetic precursor of phenylpropanoids. In addition to phenylalanine (in the free amino acid form), metabolites in the general phenylpropanoid pathway and their derivatives were found in high abundance in Amborella leaves, including coumaric acid, methyl cinnamate, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamate, 3,5-dimethoxycinnamic acid, 3-phenyllactic In Amborella leaves, the detectable free amino acids include isoleucine, arginine, aspartic acid, glutamine, and glutamic acid as well as the three aromatic amino acids, phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, and their acetylated derivatives acetylphenylalanine and acetyltryptophan (Table S1) . A group of organic acids including gluconate, citrate, malic acid, citramalate, 2-isopropylmalic acid, glutaric acid, 2-hydroxyisocaproic acid, and azelaic acid was found. Several cofactors, such as oxidized glutathione, flavin adenine dinucleotide, and riboflavin, as well as the nucleobase adenine and its nucleoside derivative adenosine, were also detected. In addition, Amborella leaves contain simple sugars (sucrose and raffinose), nucleotide sugars (UDP-glucose and UDP-xylose), and phosphate sugars (mannose 6-phosphate) (Table S1 ). Phenylalanine serves as the biosynthetic precursor of phenylpropanoids. In addition to phenylalanine (in the free amino acid form), metabolites in the general phenylpropanoid pathway and their derivatives were found in high abundance in Amborella leaves, including coumaric acid, methyl cinnamate, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamate, 3,5-dimethoxycinnamic acid, 3-phenyllactic acid, feruloyl lactate, and feruloyl hexoside ( Figure 2 ; Table S1 ). Products of the general phenylpropanoid pathway led to the biosynthesis of several groups of phenolic compounds detected in Amborella leaves, including coumarins (6-methylcoumarin, 6,8-dimethyl-4-hydroxycoumarin), isoflavonoids (genistein), anthocyanins (leucocyanidin, cyanidin 3-glucoside, delphinidin 3-rutinoside), proanthocyanidins (procyanidin B1), and flavonoids (Table S1 ).
Spectroscopic elucidation of a 2-isopropylmalic acid (2-iPMA)-aluminum(III) complex has been carried out using (1)H, (13)C and (27)Al NMR spectroscopy, diffusion-ordered NMR spectroscopy (DOSY) and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS). 2-iPMA is secreted by Saccharomyces cerevisiae and can dissolve Al(III) in the culture medium. The (1)H chemical shift perturbation and (1)H DOSY clearly indicated the formation of the 2-iPMA-Al(III) complex. The measurements of (13)C and (27)Al NMR spectroscopy and ESI-MS demonstrated that the major form of a complex is comprised four 2-iPMA and two Al(III) species. This compound is expected to possess strong Al(III)-detoxification capability.
• Aluminum (Al) toxicity is a major limiting factor of crop production on acid soils, but the implication of oxidative stress in this process is controversial. A multidisciplinary approach was used here to address this question in the forage legume Lotus corniculatus. • Plants were treated with low Al concentrations in hydroponic culture, and physiological and biochemical parameters, together with semiquantitative metabolic and proteomic profiles, were determined. • The exposure of plants to 10 μM Al inhibited root and leaf growth, but had no effect on the production of reactive oxygen species or lipid peroxides. By contrast, exposure to 20 μM Al elicited the production of superoxide radicals, peroxide and malondialdehyde. In response to Al, there was a progressive replacement of the superoxide dismutase isoforms in the cytosol, a loss of ascorbate and consistent changes in amino acids, sugars and associated enzymes. • We conclude that oxidative stress is not a causative factor of Al toxicity. The increased contents in roots of two powerful Al chelators, malic and 2-isopropylmalic acids, together with the induction of an Al-activated malate transporter gene, strongly suggest that both organic acids are implicated in Al detoxification. The effects of Al on key proteins involved in cytoskeleton dynamics, protein turnover, transport, methylation reactions, redox control and stress responses underscore a metabolic dysfunction, which affects multiple cellular compartments, particularly in plants exposed to 20 μM Al.
2-Isopropylmalic acid (2-IPMA) and 3-isopropylmalic acid (3-IPMA), recently discovered in wines, were simultaneously quantified in forty wines by UHPLC-MS/MS triple quadrupole. Principal component analysis displayed that red wines were more correlated with high amounts of 2-IPMA (average content 31.60 mg/L); white wines were mostly characterized by low levels of both organic acids. No correlation of theirs levels to other wine features (wine ageing or alcoholic content) were found. 2-IPMA and 3-IPMA showed MICs values of 4096 mg/L and MBCs values of 8192 mg/L or higher against several food borne pathogens. In association, an interesting lower MIC and MBC values (2048 mg/L and 4096 mg/L respectively) were observed against Y. enterocolitica. Interestingly, 3-IPMA showed a mild antioxidant activity by DPPH assay (EC50 = 3940 mg/L), higher than that of 2-IPMA (EC50 > 4800 mg/L). No toxicity of these compounds against human colorectal and liver cells (TB assay) was observed.
