5,5,5-Trifluoro-4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid was conveniently synthesized and transformed into (2S)-5,5,5-trifluoroleucine with high optical purity by enzymatic transamination using Alcaligenes faecalis IAM 1015.
The determination of the acid-base dissociation constants, and thus the pKa values, of a-keto acids such as pyruvic acid is complex because of the existence of these acids in their hydrated and nonhydrated or oxo state. Equilibria involved in the hydration and dehydration of the a-keto group of pyruvic acid and three other a-keto acids, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid, were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, at constant ionic strength, 0.15, and 25
D-Arginine dehydrogenase (DADH) catalyzes the flavin-dependent oxidative deamination of D-arginine and other D-amino acids to the corresponding imino acids. The 1.07 {angstrom} atomic-resolution structure of DADH crystallized with D-leucine unexpectedly revealed a covalent N(5) flavin adduct, instead of the expected iminoleucine product in the active site. This acyl adduct has been successfully reproduced by photoreduction of DADH in the presence of 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (ketoleucine). The iminoleucine may be released readily because of weak interactions in the binding site, in contrast to iminoarginine, converted to ketoleucine, which reacts with activated FAD to form the covalently linked acyl adduct.
3-Thio-2-oxoalkanoic acids I, III and IV (AH3) undergo dissociation and form the carboxylate (AH2), the thiolate-carboxylate dianion (AH) and for I even a trianion (A), when AH acts as a C-acid. Formation of a carbanion-enolate was confirmed by following the dissociation of thioether II. Generally, the hydration decreases in the sequence AH3>AH2>AH. Similarly for the thioether II, the conjugate acid is more strongly hydrated than the carboxylate anion. In ester V the conjugate acid is also more strongly hydrated than the thiolate anion. Hydration of ester V is comparable to the hydration of the acid form H3A of I. Introduction of an isopropyl group in α-position in IV decreases the hydration similar to the replacement of the SH group by a SC2H5 grouping. ::: ::: In acidic solutions polarographic reduction of acid form AH3 occurs after pre-protonation of the carbonyl group, either by electron transfer to the carbonyl group followed by elimination of the sulfide anion or by hydrogenolytic cleavage of the C−S bond. At pH 3–6 the monoanion AH2 is furthermore protonated on the carboxyl group and then reduced as AH3. At pH 6–11 the monoanion AH2 is reduced, either at the CO group or with cleavage of the C−S bond. At pH 8–11 this monoanion is formed by a rapid protonation of the dianion AH. For the thioether II where such acid-base equilibrium involving the thiol form is impossible, the half-wave of wave i2A potential at pH>6 is pH-independent. In more alkaline media, base-catalyzed dehydration takes place, occurring via geminal diol anion. ::: ::: Changes in the rate of dehydration resulting from structural changes considerably affect the pH-dependences of polarographic waves, particularly of wave i1 at pH<6. Differences between the behavior of 3-thio-2-oxobutanoic acid (III) (see Fig. 6) and 3-thio-4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (IV) (see Fig. 7) similarly as for those between 3-thio-2-oxopropanoic acid (I) (see Fig. 1) and its 3-ethylthioether (II) (see Fig. 3) are most strking. ::: ::: Whereas at the DME the competition between C=O reduction and C−S cleavage is governed by differences in the rates of establishment of the acid-base equilibria, yields of preparative reductions obtained with a stirred mercury pool electrode are given by the position of these equilibria in the bulk of the solution. At the pool electrode AH3 is predominantly reduced on the CO group, monoanion AH2 shows comparable reduction of both the CO group and cleavage of the C−S bond, whereas the dianion AH is predominantly reduced at the C−S bond.
Lactating goats were given a close arterial infusion of [1-14C]leucine and [4,5-3H]4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid into one half of the mammary gland at 2-3 weeks and 34-39 weeks after kidding. Rates of protein synthesis, degradation and net output were determined from measurements of arteriovenous difference and blood flow using a model of leucine metabolism previously developed for muscle (Oddy & Lindsay, 1986). Protein leucine output in milk (Y mumol/min) correlated well with the difference between synthesis and degradation (X mumol/min) derived from the model: Y = 1.30 + 1.24X (r2 = 0.9; n = 9, P less than 0.01). There was substantial synthesis and degradation of protein within the mammary gland. Although only an approximate value could be obtained for the partitioning of protein synthesis and degradation between tissue and milk proteins, there was evidence of appreciable turnover of both. There was no significant difference between mammary leucine and protein metabolism in early and late lactation other than that imparted by a greater mass of mammary tissue in early lactation, although there was a tendency for greater oxidation of leucine in late lactation.
1. The accumulation of [1-(14)C]glycine and the uptake, accumulation, incorporation (into protein, lipid, glycogen) and oxidation of l-[1-(14)C]leucine in 5-day-old chick embryo hearts were investigated in vitro, and the effects of insulin, puromycin and 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid on these processes were studied. 2. With glycine, the ratio of concentration of the labelled amino acid in the cell water to that in medium markedly exceeded unity. Insulin significantly increased this ratio. Puromycin did not prevent the insulin effect. 3. With leucine, the concentration ratio of the labelled amino acid between intracellular and extracellular water approached unity in the absence of puromycin and was doubled by its presence. In neither case did insulin substantially alter this ratio. The addition of 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid had no effect in the absence of insulin, but produced a significant increase of the concentration ratio in the presence of the hormone. 4. Leucine uptake was increased slightly by insulin in all experimental conditions except in the presence of puromycin, where a more pronounced stimulation was observed. The hormone had no effect on the incorporation of the labelled amino acid into protein, but accelerated its oxidation to carbon dioxide; the latter effect was particularly evident in the presence of puromycin and disappeared after the addition of 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid.
A meso-diaminopimelate dehydrogenase (DAPDH) from Clostridium tetani E88 (CtDAPDH) was found to have low activity toward the D-amino acids other than its native substrate. Site-directed mutagenesis similar to that carried out on the residues mutated by Vedha-Peters et al. resulted in a mutant enzyme with highly improved catalytic ability for the synthesis of D-amino acids. The crystal structures of the CtDAPDH mutant in apo form and in complex with meso-diaminopimelate (meso-DAP), D-leucine (D-leu), and 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (MOPA) were solved. meso-DAP was found in an area outside the catalytic cavity; this suggested a possible two-step substrate-binding mechanism for meso-DAP. D-leu and MOPA each bound both to Leu154 and to Gly155 in the open form of CtDAPDH, and structural analysis revealed the molecular basis for the expanded substrate specificity of the mutant meso-diaminopimelate dehydrogenases.
Treatment of the ester of 2-(2-chloroacetamido)-2-alkenoic acid with ammonia led to the formation of 3-alkylidene-2,5-piperazinedione. By using this method, total synthesis of albonoursin was accomplished. 2-(2-Chloroacetamido)-4-methyl-2-pentenoic acid, derived from the condensation of 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid with chloroacetonitrile or the pyrolysis of 2,2-bis(2-chloroacetamido)-4-methylpentanoic acid, was converted to the ethyl ester, which was treated with ammonia to give 3-isobutylidene-2,5-piperazinedione. The piperazinedione was also synthesized by the esterification of 2-(2-aminoacetamido)-4-methylpentenoic acid, followed by a cyclization of the ester. Condensation of the piperazinedione with benzaldehyde yielded 3-benzylidene-6-isobutylidene-2,5-piperazinedione, and its physical constants are virtually identical with those recorded for the natural albonoursin.
Alkylation of diethyl oxalpropionate with [D3]methyl iodide followed by acid hydrolysis led to 3-[D3]methyl-2-oxobutyric (α-ketoisovaleric) acid. Alkylation of N-t-butylpropylimine with [D3]methyl iodide followed by hydrolysis gave 2-[D3]methylpropanal. This was further alkylated with 2,2-difluoro-1-tosyloxyvinyllithium and hydrolyzed to afford 4-[D3]methyl-2-oxopentanoic (α-ketoisocaproic) acid. Diazotization of [1-13C]leucine ethyl ester with t-butylnitrite followed by peracid oxidation and hydrolysis gave [1-13C]4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid. In each case, the α-ketoacids were isolated as sodium salts.
The determination of the acid-base dissociation constants, and thus the pKa values, of α-keto acids such as pyruvic acid is complex because of the existence of these acids in their hydrated and nonhydrated or oxo state. Equilibria involved in the hydration and dehydration of the α-keto group of pyruvic acid and three other α-keto acids, 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid, were investigated by proton and carbon nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry, at constant ionic strength, 0.15, and 25 °C. Dissociation constants for the oxo (pKa(oxo)) and hydrated (pKa(hyd)) acids of each compound were estimated from the change in the degree of hydration with changes in pH and directly from the changes in chemical shifts of various hydrogen and carbons nuclei with pH. α-Keto acids showed greater hydration in their acidic forms than their carboxylate forms. The degree of hydration was sensitive to steric and electronic/resonance factors. As expected, the oxo forms of the acids were stronger acids compared with their hydrated analogs, and their dissociation constants were also sensitive to steric and electronic factors.
The kinetics of the nonenzymatic transamination reaction from pyridoxamine analogs with a pyridinophane structure to α-keto acids catalyzed by Zn2+ were investigated by monitoring the changes in the absorption spectra in methanol. It was found that these reactions obeyed first-order kinetics for the formation of the Zn2+ chelate of an aldimine. No appreciable change in the reaction rate was observed when the concentration of the α-keto acid was increased, indicating that the isomerization of the ketimine chelate to the aldimine chelate is the ratedetermining step. There was a considerable enhancement of the reaction rate when the molar ratio of the zinc ion to the pyridoxamine analogs was reduced from 1/1 to 0.5/1. The reaction rates corresponding to the various α-keto acids employed in the presence of an amount of Zn2+ equimolar to the pyridoxamine analog decreased in this order; phenylpyruvic acid>pyruvic acid≈4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid>3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid, whereas those in the presence of hal...
The α-keto carboxylic acid, pyruvic acid (1) was found to be a very effective peroxide scavenger but is subject to an aldol-like self-condensation/polymerization reaction. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hydrogen peroxide, H2O2, scavenging ability of 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid (2), 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (3), and 2-oxo-2-phenylacetic acid (phenylglyoxylic acid, 4) in the pH range 2-9 at 25°C and the effect of molecular structure on the relative reactivity. The reaction with H2O2 was followed by UV spectrophotometry at 220 or 260 nm and high-performance liquid chromatography. Pseudo-first order, buffer-independent decarboxylation kinetics were observed in the presence of molar excess H2O2. The second-order rate constants for 2-4 followed a sigmoidal shape and mechanism similar to pyruvic acid. Pyruvic acid was a superior H2O2 scavenger to 2-4 over the pH range 2-9 but 4 was more reactive than 2 and 3 at pH values above 6. There was a qualitative correlation between the degree of keto-group hydration and reactivity of the acids in the pH range 4-6 while the data above pH 7 suggested that the intrinsic decarboxylation step for 4 was faster than for pyruvic acid. Differences in reactivity to molecular structure were analyzed.
Early detection of insulin resistance (IR) and/or impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is crucial for delaying and preventing the progression toward type 2 diabetes. We recently developed and validated a straightforward metabolite-based test for the assessment of IR and IGT in a single LC-MS/MS method. Plasma samples were diluted with isotopically-labeled internal standards and extracted by simple protein precipitation. The extracts were analyzed by LC-MS/MS for the quantitation of 2-hydroxybutyric acid (0.500-40.0μg/mL), 3-hydroxybutyric acid (1.00-80.0μg/mL), 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid (0.500-20.0μg/mL), 1-linoleoyl-2-hydroxy-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (2.50-100μg/mL), oleic acid (10.0-400μg/mL), pantothenic acid (0.0100-0.800μg/mL), and serine (2.50-100μg/mL). Liquid chromatography was carried out on a reversed phase column with a run time of 3.1min and the mass spectrometer operated in negative MRM mode. Method validation was performed on three identical LC-MS/MS systems with five runs each. Sufficient linearity (R2>0.99) was observed for all the analytes over the ranges. The imprecision (CVs) was found to be less than 5.5% for intra-run and less than 5.8% for inter-run for the seven analytes. The analytical recovery was determined to be between 96.3 and 103% for the seven analytes. This fast and robust method has subsequently been used for patient sample analysis for the assessment of IR and IGT.
L-Homophenylalanine (L-Hph) is a useful chiral building block for synthesis of several drugs, including angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and the novel proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib. While the chemoenzymatic route of synthesis is fully developed, we investigated microbial production of L-Hph to explore the possibility of a more efficient and sustainable approach to L-Hph production. We hypothesized that L-Hph is synthesized from L-Phe via a mechanism homologous to 3-methyl-2-oxobutanoic acid conversion to 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid during leucine biosynthesis. Based on bioinformatics analysis, we found three putative homophenylalanine biosynthesis genes, hphA (Npun_F2464), hphB (Npun_F2457), and hphCD (Npun_F2458), in the cyanobacterium Nostoc punctiforme PCC73102, located around the gene cluster responsible for anabaenopeptin biosynthesis. We constructed Escherichia coli strains harboring hphABCD-expressing plasmids and achieved the fermentative production of L-Hph from L-Phe. To our knowledge, this is the first identification of the genes responsible for homophenylalanine synthesis in any organism. Furthermore, to improve the low conversion efficiency of the initial strain, we optimized the expression of hphA, hphB, and hphCD, which increased the yield to ∼630 mg/liter. The L-Hph biosynthesis and L-Leu biosynthesis genes from E. coli were also compared. This analysis revealed that HphB has comparatively relaxed substrate specificity and can perform the function of LeuB, but HphA and HphCD show tight substrate specificity and cannot complement the LeuA and LeuC/LeuD functions, and vice versa. Finally, the range of substrate tolerance of the L-Hph-producing strain was examined, which showed that m-fluorophenylalanine, o-fluorophenylalanine, and L-tyrosine were accepted as substrates and that the corresponding homoamino acids were generated.
Tripropeptins (TPPs), the non-ribosomal cyclic depsipeptide antibiotics, are isolated from the culture broth of Lysobacter sp., and exhibit potent antimicrobial activity against gram-positive bacteria. TPPs consist of a common peptide ring composed of eight amino acids and a branched chain fatty acid from C-12 to C-17. Based on the biosynthetic pathway of branched chain fatty acids, the effects of supplement of their postulated biosynthetic precursors on production ratio of TPPs were examined. As expected, the corresponding TPP-components were predominantly produced by addition of leucine, isovaleric acid, 3-methyl-2-oxo-butanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid and 3-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoic acids, but not by addition of valine.
Tripropeptins (TPPs), the non-ribosomal cyclic depsipeptide antibiotics, are isolated from the culture broth of Lysobacter sp., and exhibit potent antimicrobial activity against gram-positive bacteria. TPPs consist of a common peptide ring composed of eight amino acids and a branched chain fatty acid from C-12 to C-17. Based on the biosynthetic pathway of branched chain fatty acids, the effects of supplement of their postulated biosynthetic precursors on production ratio of TPPs were examined. As expected, the corresponding TPP-components were predominantly produced by addition of leucine, isovaleric acid, 3-methyl-2-oxo-butanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid and 3-hydroxy-14-methylpentadecanoic acids, but not by addition of valine.
A model of leucine metabolism in the hind-limb muscles of the milk-fed lamb was developed which permitted simultaneous estimation of the rates of protein synthesis (Ks, days-1), degradation (Kd) and therefore gain (Kg) of muscle in vivo. The conclusions drawn from the model were: the rate of protein synthesis in muscle was related to uptake of leucine; the rate of degradation of protein was related to leucine output, as leucine, or its corresponding oxo acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, or CO2. These findings support findings drawn from a wide range of studies in vitro. There was no correlation between rate of protein synthesis and rate of protein degradation, which suggests that the method can allow independent estimates of each. Estimates of protein synthesis obtained from the model (of leucine metabolism in muscle) were compared with those obtained simultaneously by constant infusion of radioisotope and analysis of incorporation into tissue. There were no significant differences between the mean values obtained for synthesis (Ks), gain (Kg) and degradation (Kd) by either method (Ks 0.051 +/- 0.002, 0.046 +/- 0.007; Kg 0.016 +/- 0.002, 0.004 +/- 0.008; Kd 0.035 +/- 0.004, 0.041 +/- 0.008 day-1, respectively, for tissue analysis and the model). However, Ks obtained from the model was significantly and positively correlated with uptake of leucine from plasma, whereas Ks obtained from tissue analysis was not.
THE AL-keto acids and some of their precursors and derivatives, more particularly selected in the group consisting of acids GLICOXILICOS, 2-oxo-propanoic acid, 2-oxo-butanoic, 3-methyl-2-oxo-butanoic, 3- mETHYL-2-oxopentanoic acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-oxo-propanoic, oxalacetic, 2-oxoglutaric, 2-Oxo-3-phenyl-propanoic acid, 3 - {(4-hydroxy} -phenyl {-2-oxo-propanoic, 2-OXO-1H-indole-3-propanoic, 2-OXO-1H-imidazol-4PROPANOICO, 4-methylthio-2-oxo-butanoic, 3-mercapto-2-oxopropanoic, 3- hydroxy-2-oxo-butanoic acid, 6-amino-2-oxo-hexanoic acid and 5-guanido-2-oxo-pentanoic, and their precursors and derivatives MAY OCCUR OR DELIVER IN THE MIDDLE OF uSE, they are useful as flavoring ingredients. PREPARE TO SERVE AND FOOD FLAVORED flavoring compositions vARIED VERY NATURE, THE PROVIDING A creamier and voluminous character, with a greater impact on my mouth, and, generally speaking, better "mouthfeel" .SIRVEN also for STRENGTHEN AND DOING MORE NATURAL SWEET EDULACORADOS status of products using natural or artificial sweeteners.
A model of leucine metabolism in the hind-limb muscles of the milk-fed lamb was developed which permitted simultaneous estimation of the rates of protein synthesis (K., days-1), degradation (Kd) and therefore gain (Kg) of muscle in vivo. The conclusions drawn from the model were: the rate of protein synthesis in muscle was related to uptake of leucine; the rate of degradation of protein was related to leucine output, as leucine, or its corresponding oxo acid, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, or CO2. These findings support findings drawn from a wide range of studies in vitro. There was no correlation between rate of protein synthesis and rate of protein degradation, which suggests that the method can allow independent estimates of each. Estimates of protein synthesis obtained from the model (of leucine metabolism in muscle) were compared with those obtained simultaneously by constant infusion of radioisotope and analysis of incorporation into tissue. There were no significant differences between the mean values obtained for synthesis (K.), gain (Kg) and degradation (Kd) by either method
Alpha-keto acid decarboxylases can convert keto acids to their corresponding aldehydes, which are often volatile aroma compounds. The gene encoding α-keto acid decarboxylase in Proteus mirabilis JN458 was cloned, and the enzyme overexpressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3), purified in high yield, and characterised. The molecular weight is 62.291kDa by MALDI-TOF MS, and optimum activity at pH 6.0 and 40-50°C. The enzyme is a typical decarboxylase, dependent on thiamine diphosphate and Mg2+ as cofactors. For the decarboxylation reaction, the enzyme displayed a broad substrate range. Kinetic parameters were determined using 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid, phenyl pyruvate and 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid as substrates. Km and kcat values for phenyl pyruvate were 0.62mM and 77.38s-1, respectively, and the kcat/Km value was 124.81mM-1s-1. The enzyme properties suggest it may act effectively under cheese ripening conditions.
Abstract The Finnish varietal honeys are valued specialty foods with unique characteristics, owing to their botanical origin. 1 H NMR metabolomics was applied to examine the compositional differences and origin-related markers of naturally complex boreal honeys (buckwheat, clover, dandelion, heather, Himalayan balsam, honeydew, linden, lingonberry, multifloral). Special focus was on the metabolites in aqueous samples. Chloroform extracts of selected samples were also analyzed for additional metabolic evidence. Qualitative profiling revealed 2-hydroxy-3-methylbutyric, 2-hydroxy-3-methylpentanoic, 3-methyl-2-oxopentanoic and 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acids as specific markers for dandelion ( Taraxacum spp.) honeys. Full discrimination of buckwheat, dandelion, heather, and honeydew honeys was achieved with principal component analysis (PCA) and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis (OPLS-DA). Melezitose, glucose, and fructose explained 83% of the variation in the PCA. The OPLS-DA loadings highlighted the discriminatory effect of the origin-specific non-saccharide metabolites. This study is a platform for a national honey library and analysis service. The results will facilitate and rationalize the characterization and quality control of the boreal varietal honeys.
Crystal structures of oximes of two aliphatic keto-carboxylic acids, 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoic acid oxime [(PEN) 4-methyl-2-(hydroxylimino)pentanoic acid] and levulinic acid oxime [(LEV) 4-(hydroxylimino)pentanoic acid], were determined by X-ray structural methods. The molecular structures of monomers interacting via hydrogen-bond networks were analysed with the use of theoretical ab initio self-consistent field (SCF) calculations on model systems. The results of present crystallographic and theoretical studies show that a different structure of PEN and LEV crystals originates mostly from electron charge distribution, depending on the relative position of the oxime and carboxyl moieties. The observed N-O and N=C bond lengths and O-H...N and O - H...O hydrogen-bond contacts in PEN crystals are affected by the π-electron resonance of the oxime and carboxyl moieties in a way similar to that found in β-diketones
