Environmental epidemiology and biomonitoring studies typically rely on biological samples to assay the concentration of non-persistent exposure biomarkers. Between-participant variations in sampling conditions of these biological samples constitute a potential source of exposure misclassification. Few studies attempted to correct biomarker levels for this error. We aimed to assess the influence of sampling conditions on concentrations of urinary biomarkers of select phenols and phthalates, two widely-produced families of chemicals, and to standardize biomarker concentrations on sampling conditions. Urine samples were collected between 2002 and 2006 among 287 pregnant women from Eden and Pélagie cohorts, from which phthalates and phenols metabolites levels were assayed. We applied a 2-step standardization method based on regression residuals. First, the influence of sampling conditions (including sampling hour, duration of storage before freezing) and of creatinine levels on biomarker concentrations were characterized using adjusted linear regression models. In the second step, the model estimates were used to remove the variability in biomarker concentrations due to sampling conditions and to standardize concentrations as if all samples had been collected under the same conditions (e.g., same hour of urine collection). Sampling hour was associated with concentrations of several exposure biomarkers. After standardization for sampling conditions, median concentrations differed by ‒ 38 % for 2,5-dichlorophenol to +80 % for a metabolite of diisodecyl phthalate. However, at the individual level, standardized biomarker levels were strongly correlated (correlation coefficients above 0.80) with unstandardized measures. Sampling conditions, such as sampling hour, should be systematically collected in biomarker-based studies, in particular when the biomarker half-life is short. The 2-step standardization method based on regression residuals that we proposed in order to limit the impact of heterogeneity in sampling conditions could be further tested in studies describing levels of biomarkers or their influence on health.
Objective To examine the association of urinary levels of the environmental phenol pesticides 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, and triclosan with body weight outcomes in children and adolescent participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007-2010. Study design We performed multivariate linear and multinomial logistic regressions to analyze the association of body mass index (BMI) z-score, waist circumference (WC), and obesity with urinary pesticide concentration in children and adolescents. Results After adjustment for covariates, we found a statistically significant positive association ( P Conclusions We found an association between dichlorophenols and increased body weight measures (BMI z-score, WC, and obesity) in adolescents. However, further studies, such as a longitudinal study, are needed to confirm and elucidate on our findings.
Background: Environmental epidemiology and biomonitoring studies typically rely on biological samples to assay the concentration of non-persistent exposure biomarkers. Between-participant variations in sampling conditions of these biological samples constitute a potential source of exposure misclassification. Few studies attempted to correct biomarker levels for this error. We aimed to assess the influence of sampling conditions on concentrations of urinary biomarkers of select phenols and phthalates, two widely-produced families of chemicals, and to standardize biomarker concentrations on sampling conditions. Methods: Urine samples were collected between 2002 and 2006 among 287 pregnant women from Eden and Pélagie cohorts, from which phthalates and phenols metabolites levels were assayed. We applied a 2-step standardization method based on regression residuals. First, the influence of sampling conditions (including sampling hour, duration of storage before freezing) and of creatinine levels on biomarker concentrations were characterized using adjusted linear regression models. In the second step, the model estimates were used to remove the variability in biomarker concentrations due to sampling conditions and to standardize concentrations as if all samples had been collected under the same conditions (e.g., same hour of urine collection). Results: Sampling hour was associated with concentrations of several exposure biomarkers. After standardization for sampling conditions, median concentrations differed by -38 % for 2,5-dichlorophenol to +80 % for a metabolite of diisodecyl phthalate. However, at the individual level, standardized biomarker levels were strongly correlated (correlation coefficients above 0.80) with unstandardized measures. Conclusions: Sampling conditions, such as sampling hour, should be systematically collected in biomarker-based studies, in particular when the biomarker half-life is short. The 2-step standardization method based on regression residuals that we proposed in order to limit the impact of heterogeneity in sampling conditions could be further tested in studies describing levels of biomarkers or their influence on health.
A mixture of ammonia and helium was used as a carrier gas for capillary gas chromatographic analysis of aliphatic amines and dichlorophenols. The peak symmetry for aliphatic amines was drastically improved when the percentage of ammonia was 5–30%. The symmetry continued to improve, although less drastically, between 30–100%ammonia. The capacity factors of the amines decreased with increasing ammonia content up to 100%. 2,5-Dichlorophenol and 2,6-dichlorophenol could not be resolved when helium alone was used as the mobile phase with a column of intermediate polarity (cyanopropylmethylphenylsilicone). Complete separation was, however, achieved by increasing the ammonia content in the carrier gas to 50%. The ratio of the capacity factors (k'NH3/k'He) for the dichlorophenols increased linearly with increasing ammonia percentage up to 100% on the methylsilicone and cyanopropylmethylphenylsilicone columns.
Residential environmental and biomarker measurements were made of multiple pollutants during two seasons (spring and summer, 1993) in order to assess human exposure for a purposeful sample of 18 nonsmoking adults residing within nine homes (a primary and secondary subject in each home) in the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) near Brownsville, TX. Pesticides, metals, PAHs, VOCs, and PCBs were measured in drinking water, food, air, soil, and house dust over a one- to two-day period in each season. Biomarker measurements were made in blood, breath, and urine. A total of 375 measurements across five pollutant classes (227 pesticides, 44 trace elements, 78 VOCs, 18 PAHs, and 8 PCBs) was possible for each home in one or more media. A large percentage of the measurements was below the method limit of detection ranging from 0–37% for pesticides, 22–61% for metals, 6% and 90% for VOCs in water and air, respectively, and 0–74% for PAHs. The total number of analytes measurable in blood, urine, or breath was considerably less, i.e., 58 (21 pesticides, 1 PCB, 4 metals, 31 VOCs, and 1 PAH) with the percentage above the method limit of detection for pesticides and metals ranging from 40 to 100%, while for VOCs, PAHs, and PCBs, this percentage ranged from 2 to 33%. A significant seasonal difference (p≤0.10) was found in the biomarker levels of two of seven nonpersistent pesticides (3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol and 2,5-dichlorophenol) and 3 of 3 metals (arsenic, cadmium, and mercury) and the pyrene metabolite, 1-hydroxypyrene, measured in urine. In all cases, levels were higher in the summer relative to the spring. For the persistent pesticides and PCBs in blood serum, a seasonal effect could be evaluated for 5 of 10 analytes; a significant difference (p≤0.10) was observed only for hexachlorobenzene, which like the urine biomarkers, was higher in the summer. In contrast to the urine metals, blood-Pb concentrations did not change significantly (p≤0.05) from spring to summer. Biological results from the current study are compared to the reference range furnished by the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III). Comparisons are only suggestive due to limitations in comparability between the two studies. Based on the percentage of measurements above the detection limit, a significant elevation (p≤0.10) in 2 of 12 nonpersistent pesticides (4-nitrophenol and 2,4-D) was observed for the LRGV study subjects. The VOC carbon tetrachloride was found in the blood (monitored only in spring) with greater prevalence (p≤0.10) than would be expected from NHANES III results. Blood serum levels of two persistent pesticides (4,4′-DDE, and trans-nonachlor) and PCB exceeded median and/or 95th percentile reference levels as did arsenic in urine. Where seasonal differences were identified or for compounds exceeding reference levels, environmental monitoring results were investigated to identify potential contributing pathways and sources of exposure. However, because environmental sampling did not always coincide with the biological sampling and because of the high frequency of analytes measured below the limit of detection, sources and pathways of exposure in many cases could not be explained. Chlorpyrifos was an exception where urine metabolite (3,5,6-TCP) levels were found to be significantly correlated with air (R2=0.55; p≤0.01) and dust (R2=0.46; p≤0.01) concentrations. Based on the results of biomarker and residential environmental measurements over two seasons, this scoping study shows a seasonal effect for some analytes and suggests where exposures may be high for others. This information may be useful in considering future studies in the region.
ABSTRACT The effectiveness of ozone and ozone-UV processes on effluents containing chlorophenol was evaluated. Experiments were performed using 3.06 mM of 2,5-dichlorophenol in distilled water and wastewater at pH 7 with ozone dose of 37 mg/L. An ozone dose of 1.2 g/h was effective in completely degrading 2,5-dichlorophenol and reducing the toxicity of its by-products. Overall, ozone-UV process was more effective in the oxidation of 2,5-DCP. Ozone-UV treatment of wastewater showed the highest mineralization (53%), dechlorination (100%), COD removal (75%), and biodegradability (BOD5/COD = 0.85). The organic/inorganic matters in wastewater seem to have a positive effect on the oxidation of 2,5-DCP and supports the use of ozone and ozone-UV processes for industrial effluent treatment.
Phenols pose a risk to the environment and to human health. Phenols found in rivers mainly originate from sewage treatment plants (STPs). In this paper, analytical procedures, based on deconvolution technology and retention time locking technology, were investigated to simultaneously identify and determine the concentrations of fifty different phenols in sewage water and effluents. Seventeen different phenols were found in sewage and five - including two regulated phenols (phenol and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol) and three un-regulated phenols (2-chlorophenol. 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichloro-3-ethyl-6-nitrophenol) - were identified in effluents of five STPs. A number of processes undertaken in five STPs were also investigated. These processes can be used to remove phenols at efficiency levels of between 88.95% and 99.97%. Among the processes tested, a combination of anaerobic/anoxic/oxic (A(2)/O), continuous microfiltration (CMF), ozone oxidation (O-3), and chlorination, appeared to be the best option for the removal of key phenols. Among the five phenols identified in effluents, 2,5-dichlorophenol (1.89 mu g/L) and 2,4-dichloro-3-ethyl-6-nitrophenol (22.6 mu g/L) pose the greatest ecological risk to receiving waters. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Abstract Chlorophenols (CPs) are synthetic chemicals that are generated and used widely by different industries such as textile, pharmaceutical, metallurgic, oil, and pulp and paper manufacturing. Except water, most of the solvents used in these industries are volatile and toxic. Therefore, there is an imminent need for replacing these solvents by solvents that have less negative impact on the environment. In addition, CPs are considered as hazardous pollutants due to their resistance to biodegradation and persistence in the environment. Their toxic effects are severe including DNA damage, endocrine disruption, cytotoxicity, mutagenicity, and carcinogenicity. Hence, the water contaminated by CPs must be treated before being released to the environment. Ionic liquids (ILs) are molten salts that are liquid below 100 °C, which have been used as solvents for many processes including liquid-liquid extraction and as electrolytes in electrochemical devices. ILs are characterized by negligible vapor pressure and non-flammability. These compounds are liquid over a wide range of temperatures; possess high thermal and chemical stability. ILs are being used as media for many reactions to reduce the negative impact of traditional solvents on the environment. In addition, using ILs as green solvents in water treatment has become a research hotspot. Solubility data of CPs in ILs is important for assessing the potential use of ILs as reaction media and in water treatment, but relevant data for ILs are scarce. To our best knowledge, no solubility data of chlorophenols in ILs were reported in the literature. Thus, in this study, the solubility of 3-chlorophenol (3-CP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCP), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP), and pentachlorophenol (PCP) in six hydrophobic bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide based ILs at 25 °C, 35 °C and 45 °C was investigated. It was found that the solubility of 3-CP in all studied ILs at 25 °C was greater than 70 wt%, thus the solubility measurements of 3-chlorophenol in the studied IL were stopped at 70 wt% and further measurement was not conducted. The solubility of other CPs in all studied ILs decreased with increasing the number of chlorine atoms in the CP and increased with the increase in temperature, but the degree of increase depended on the structure of both the IL and chlorinated phenol. In general, it was found that the tested chlorophenols have substantial solubility in pyridinium and imidazolium-based ILs. In addition, the non-random two-liquid model (NRTL) and Conductor-like Screening Model for Real Solvents (COSMO-RS) models were applied to predict the solubility of chlorophenols in all ILs used in this study. There was a good quantitative and qualitative agreement between experimental and calculated solubility data in most of the cases.
The following monoprotic acids have been studied in N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF): p-toluenesulphonic acid; 2,6-dichlorobenzoic acid; 2,5-dichlorophenol; the anilinium ion; the N-methyl-anilinium ion. The first dissociation step of malonic and succinic acids has also been studied. Dissociation and homoconjugation constants have been determined potentiometrically, at 25 degrees , in buffer solutions containing either the acid and its tetraethylammonium salt or the base and its picrate. Homoconjugation equilibria between unchanged acid and univalent conjugate base have been found not only for benzoic acid and phenol derivatives, but also between undissociated diprotic carboxylic acids and the corresponding monoanions, which are strongly intramolecularly hydrogen-bonded. Results are discussed with reference to previously published values.
We investigated in this study the relationship between exposure to para-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB), measured as urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), and metabolic syndrome in non-diabetic adult participants. A nationally representative subsample of 1706 non-diabetic adult participants aged 20-79 years randomly selected for measurement of urinary concentrations of 2,5-DCP in the 2007-2010 US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey was analyzed. A dose-dependent increase in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome was observed in the study participants across quartiles of urinary 2,5-DCP (p-trend = 0.0025). After adjusting for potential confounders, individuals in the third and fourth quartile of urinary 2,5-DCP had 1.47 (95% CI 1.02, 2.14) and 1.56 (95% CI 1.10, 2.23) increased odds of metabolic syndrome, respectively, compared with individuals with the lowest quartile. Of the five components of metabolic syndrome, waist circumference and HDL-cholesterol showed a significant and monotonic association with urinary 2,5-DCP. Participants with the highest quartile of 2,5-DCP had 3.18 cm (95% CI 1.34, 5.02) higher mean waist circumference and 2.83 mg/dL (95% CI -4.68, -0.98) lower mean HDL-cholesterol than the participants in the lowest quartile. This study suggests a potential relationship between p-DCB exposure and metabolic syndrome in non-diabetic adults. Prospective epidemiological and mechanistic studies are needed to further explore these interactions.
Abstract The removal of selected toxic compounds during anaerobic digestion of municipal sludge was investigated at pilot scale. In primary digestion, isoquinoline, p-cresol, 4-chlorophenol, 2,4,5-chlorophenol, diethyl phthalate, di- n -butyl phthalate and butylbenzyl phthalate were removed at efficiences greater than 90%. Bis-2-ethylhexyl phthalate, o -cresol and 2,5-dichlorophenol were removed at efficiencies of between 55 and 65%. Greater than 60% of the toxic compounds entering secondary digestion were degraded. The anaerobic biomass appeared to acclimate to biodegrade the chlorophenolic compounds during the experimental period. A dynamic model, developed to predict the fate of toxics during primary sludge digestion, was calibrated with data from the experiment. Biodegradation rate coefficients only could be estimated due to statistical redundancy of the sorption partitioning parameter during the non-linear regression. The sorption partition coefficients were estimated from literature octanol-water partitioning coefficients.
The addition of fermentable organic material to the bioremediation plant in Vietnam was a highly beneficial measure, allowing a complex organohalide-degrading community to become established including Desulfitobacterium, a well-known chlorophenol-dehalogenating bacterium. In the primary microcosms, additional degradation products of 2,4,5-T, such as 2,5-dichlorophenol and 3-chlorophenol, were observed. In the soil samples, members of the Dehalococcoidia as well as Desulfitobacterium were detected by PCR-based approaches (Dinh et al., 2015) . This finding suggests that an even more complex microbial 2,4,5-T-degrading network within the active landfill in Bien Hoa exists, from which we have investigated only a subset of existing reactions. The long history of 2,4,5-T and 2,4-D contamination of the treated soils together with the treatment strategy likely enabled the favourable enrichment of biodegrading communities. However, our data demonstrate that disturbance of this interaction, loss of members of the community or limitation of electron donors slows down the transformation process or results in altered end-products. Some of these might be more toxic and persistent, such as 2,4,5-TCP. Therefore, a detailed understanding of the total microbial degradation process is urgently required. Understanding the molecular basis of 2,4,5-T degradation is not only important with respect to the treatment process in Bien Hoa but also with regard to the presentday use of phenoxycarbonic acid herbicides in agriculture and will aid in reducing the associated risk of groundwater contamination worldwide.
Abstract Similarly to unleaded gasoline, 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB) administered for 2 years caused a dose-related increase in the incidence of renal tumors in male but not in female rats or in either sex of mice. Unleaded gasoline and 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (TMP), a component of unleaded gasoline, increased protein droplet formation and cell proliferation in male but not in female rat kidneys. These protein droplets contained, α 2u -globulin, a male rat-specific low-molecular-weight protein and 2,4,4-trimethyl-2-pentanol, a metabolite of TMP that was reversibly bound to this protein. Studies were undertaken to determine if 1,4-DCB produced similar effects; 1,2-DCB was used for comparison since it did not produce renal carcinogenesis in male rats. Gel filtration chromatography of a 116,000 g supernatant prepared from kidneys of 1,4-[ 14 C]DCB-treated rats showed that radiolabel coeluted with α 2u -globulin as one sharp peak as opposed to a multipeak pattern observed for 1,2-[ 14 C]DCB; the maximal quantity of radiolabel for 1,4-DCB was twice that for 1,2-DCB. Equilibrium dialysis of kidney cytosol in the presence or absence of sodium dodecyl sulfate demonstrated that the radiolabel was reversibly bound to α 2u -globulin; the amount for 1,4-[ 14 C]DCB-treated rats was almost twice as much as that for 1,2-[ 14 C]DCB-treated rats. 1,2-DCB was also shown to be covalently bound to renal α 2u -globulin, and covalently bound to liver and plasma high-molecular-weight proteins. 1,4-DCB and, to a minor extent, 2,5-dichlorophenol, the major metabolite of 1,4-DCB, were reversibly bound to renal α 2u -globulin from 1,4-DCB-treated rats. 1,4-DCB increased protein droplet formation in male but not in female rat kidneys, whereas equimolar doses of 1,2-DCB showed no effect in either sex. Renal cell proliferation, measured by [ 3 H]thymidine incorporation into renal DNA, was increased after 1,4-DCB but not after 1,2-DCB treatment. Nephrotoxicity and biochemical alterations induced by 1,4-DCB resemble those of unleaded gasoline and suggest that a similar mechanism is involved in the induction of α 2u -globulin nephropathy in male rats.
Background: 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and their precursors are widely used in industry and in consumer products. Urinary concentrations of 2,4-DCP and 2,5-DCP have ...
BACKGROUND ::: Para-dichlorobenzene (PDCB) is an aromatic hydrocarbon contained in mothballs that is potentially neurotoxic. A potential pathogenic role of PDCB in MS pathogenesis has been suggested. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: To determine the ability of chronic PDCB ingestion to induce CNS autoimmunity in a genetically susceptible mammalian species, naive myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide (MOGp)35-55 T cell receptor (TCR) transgenic mice (2D2) on the C57Bl/6 background were orally gavaged once daily with corn oil control, 125 mg/kg PDCB, or 250 mg/kg PDCB for 45 days. The incidence of spontaneous EAE is increased in this mouse strain. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Both PDCB treatment groups showed the same spontaneous incidence of EAE, an earlier disease onset, and a slight decrease in survival for 125 mg/kg PDCB mice compared to control mice. We were unable to detect any PDCB, or its metabolites 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dicholormethylsulfide, and 2,5-dichloromethylsulfone in the brain and spinal cord of control mice. In contrast, PDCB was readily detectable in both compartments in mice who received PDCB via oral gavage, with concentrations being significantly higher in the brain (p < 0.01). Levels of the metabolites 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichloromethylsulfone were also significantly higher in brains compared to spinal cords. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Our study refutes the hypothesis that PDCB or its metabolites trigger spontaneous T cell-mediated CNS autoimmunity in the setting of genetic susceptibility. A slight increase in mortality with PDCB exposure may be due systemic toxicity of hydrocarbons.
BACKGROUND ::: 2,4-Dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), and their precursors are widely used in industry and in consumer products. Urinary concentrations of these dichlorophenols (DCPs) have been measured as part of four National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) cycles in order to assess the exposure to these compounds or their precursors among the general U.S. population. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: We identified predictors and evaluated trends in DCP concentrations according to race/ethnicity, age, sex, family income, and housing type. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We used analysis of covariance to examine associations of various demographic parameters and survey cycle with urinary concentrations of DCPs during NHANES 2003-2010. We also conducted weighted logistic regressions to estimate associations of DCP concentrations above the 95th percentile with housing type, race/ethnicity, and income. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: We detected DCPs in at least 81% of participants. Geometric mean (GM) urinary concentrations were higher for 2,5-DCP (6.1-12.9 μg/L) than 2,4-DCP (0.8-1.0 μg/L) throughout 2003-2010. Adjusted GM concentrations of the DCPs among children (6-11 years of age) and adults > 60 years of age were higher than among adolescents and other adults. Adjusted GM concentrations among non-Hispanic whites were lower than among non-Hispanic blacks and Mexican Americans, although differences according to race/ethnicity were less pronounced among participants in high-income households. Among non-Hispanic blacks and Mexican Americans, adjusted GM concentrations were lowest among high-income participants relative to other income groups, with a monotonic decrease with increasing income among Mexican Americans. Type of housing and race/ethnicity were significant predictors of DCP urinary concentrations above the 95th percentile. Furthermore, urinary DCP concentrations have showed a downward trend since 2003. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Exposure to DCPs and their precursors was prevalent in the general U.S. population in 2003-2010. We identified age and race/ethnicity, family income, and housing type as predictors of exposure to these compounds.
Abstract A diverse group of chemicals cause a male rat-specific nephrotoxicity in which α2u-globulin accumulates in renal lysosomes. It has been suggested that these chemicals bind to the protein and decrease its degradation by lysosomal proteinases. To test this hypothesis, the lysosomal degradation of native α2u-globulin and that to which d -limonene, d -limonene-1,2-oxide, isophorone, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol were bound was studied. α2u-Globulin was purified from male rat urine, and male rat renal cortical lysosomes, isolated by differential centrifugation, served as the proteolytic enzyme source. Pepstatin, an inhibitor of aspartic acid proteinases, and leupeptin, an inhibitor of cysteine proteinases, reduced α2u-globulin degradation to 28 ± 8 and 17 ± 5% of control, respectively, whereas addition of both inhibitors decreased α2u-globulin degradation to 8 ± 1% of control values. These results indicate that both classes of endopeptidases are important in the degradation of α2u-globulin. Under the incubation conditions used, 30% of native α2u-globulin was degraded in a 4-hr period. Conjugates of the protein were made for in vitro binding experiments. Binding of d -limonene and 1,4-dichlorobenzene to α2u-globulin did not alter the degradation of the protein, whereas binding of d -limonene-1,2-oxide, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and isophorone decreased α2u-globulin degradation by 33%. These results indicate that not all chemicals which have been shown to bind in vivo to α2u-globulin alter the in vitro lysosomal degradation of the protein. However, in all cases, one metabolite of each hyaline droplet inducer did alter degradation of α2u-globulin, suggesting that a decrease in lysosomal degradation is involved in the accumulation of this protein in male rat kidney lysosomes.
An effect of natural and synthetic DOM in enhancing the absorption kinetics (or diffusive conductivity) of HOCs toward passive samplers has been observed in a number of studies focused on HOC sorption to DOM and the determination of freely dissolved concentrations through solid-phase microextraction (SPME) [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] . This effect occurs when diffusion of HOCs through an unstirred boundary layer (UBL) is the rate-limiting step in the absorption by passive samplers [7] . In this case, absorption rate coefficients will be constant, and desorption rate coefficients will decrease, with an increase in hydrophobicity of HOCs [10, 11] . This effect has preferentially been called the diffusion layer effect to prevent confusion with other types of matrix effects (e.g., fouling of passive samplers or salinity effects) [12] . Diffusion layer effects have been observed in SPME fiber absorption experiments that showed an increase in uptake of lindane and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) as a function of protein concentration [7] . Furthermore, an enhancement of the kinetics of SPME was observed in humic acid (HA) solutions for fluoranthene [5] and for 2,5-dichlorophenol [6] . Other organic matrices also caused an enhanced SPME of 2,4,6-trichlorophenol with and without liposomes in a dialysis experiment [8] , and bovine serum albumin caused the enhancement of octylphenol extraction [9] . The occurrence of a diffusion layer effect for 4-chloro-3-methylphenol, estradiol, PCB-77, and 4-quinolones in the presence of defined organic matrices (bovine serum albumin and HA from Sigma-Aldrich [referred to hereafter as Aldrich HA], Zwijndrecht, The Netherlands), however, was not observed in a number of SPME studies [12] [13] [14] [15] . The absence of any effect can occur when the rate-limiting step is diffusion into the fiber rather than through the UBL [13, [15] [16] [17] or when DOM concentrations are relatively low [14] . The occurrence of this effect in the presence of DOM from sediment pore water remains relatively unexplored, possibly as a result of the complexities caused by the extraction procedure for DOM [18] .
An efficient, inexpensive and environmentally benign ultrasound-assisted supramolecular-solvent-based microextraction technique combined with high-performance liquid chromatography was used for the determination of chlorophenols in environmental water samples. Different factors such as amount of decanoic acid, volume of tetrahydrofuran, pH of the sample, ultrasound time and ionic strength were investigated and optimized. The optimized extraction conditions were 60 mg decanoic acid, 1.5 mL tetrahydrofuran, 3 min ultrasound time, without salt addition. Under this condition, the extraction recoveries were 83.0-89.3 with preconcentration factors of 94-102. The calibration curves were linear from 5.0-400.0 ng/mL with square of the correlation coefficient higher than 0.9998 and the limits of detection were between 1.5-2.0 ng/mL. The values of intra- and inter-day relative standard deviations were 3.2-6.0 and 7.3-8.0%, respectively. Analysis of different samples showed that the concentration of 2,5-dichlorophenol in Babolrood river water was 80.6 ng/mL.
BACKGROUND ::: We investigated whether human environmental exposure to chemicals that are labeled as (potential) carcinogens leads to increased (oxidative) damage to DNA in adolescents. ::: ::: ::: MATERIAL AND METHODS ::: Six hundred 14-15-year-old youngsters were recruited all over Flanders (Belgium) and in two areas with important industrial activities. DNA damage was assessed by alkaline and formamidopyrimidine DNA glycosylase (Fpg) modified comet assays in peripheral blood cells and analysis of urinary 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels. Personal exposure to potentially carcinogenic compounds was measured in urine, namely: chromium, cadmium, nickel, 1-hydroxypyrene as a proxy for exposure to other carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), t,t-muconic acid as a metabolite of benzene, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), organophosphate pesticide metabolites, and di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) metabolites. In blood, arsenic, polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) congeners 118 and 156, hexachlorobenzene (HCB), dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) were analyzed. Levels of methylmercury (MeHg) were measured in hair. Multiple linear regression models were used to establish exposure-response relationships. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Biomarkers of exposure to PAHs and urinary chromium were associated with higher levels of both 8-OHdG in urine and DNA damage detected by the alkaline comet assay. Concentrations of 8-OHdG in urine increased in relation with increasing concentrations of urinary t,t-muconic acid, cadmium, nickel, 2,5-DCP, and DEHP metabolites. Increased concentrations of PFOA in blood were associated with higher levels of DNA damage measured by the alkaline comet assay, whereas DDT was associated in the same direction with the Fpg-modified comet assay. Inverse associations were observed between blood arsenic, hair MeHg, PCB 156 and HCB, and urinary 8-OHdG. The latter exposure biomarkers were also associated with higher fish intake. Urinary nickel and t,t-muconic acid were inversely associated with the alkaline comet assay. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: This cross-sectional study found associations between current environmental exposure to (potential) human carcinogens in 14-15-year-old Flemish adolescents and short-term (oxidative) damage to DNA. Prospective follow-up will be required to investigate whether long-term effects may occur due to complex environmental exposures.
Extract of steer wool odor was found to excite olfactory receptor(s) in a wall-pore olfactory sensillum on the distal knoll of the Haller's organ. Three active volatile compounds were revealed in this odor by gas chromatography. Electrophysiological experiments revealed two types of receptors (sensory neurons) within the sensilla examined. One type of receptor responded only to phenolic derivatives, such as o-chlorophenol, o-bromophenol, o-methylphenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dibromophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, but not to o-nithrophenol, p-methylphenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 3,5-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dinithrophenol, 2,6-dimethylphenol, and pentachlorophenol. The other type of receptor responded only to gamma-valerolactone. It is assumed that these cells play an important role in perception of a host from long distances (10-15 m), which is typical of Ixodes ricinus ticks.
The potential adverse effects of hazardous waste incinerators (HWI) continue to be a subject of worry. The construction of the first and up till now only HWI in Spain finished in 1999. Twenty-six subjects employed at this HWI were divided into three groups: plant, laboratory and administration. Plasma analyses of HCB, PCBs (28, 52, 101, 138, 153 and 180), and PCDD/Fs, as well as urinary analyses of 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCPs), 2,4,5- and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCPs), pentachlorophenol (PCP), and 1-hydroxypyrene (1-HP) were carried out. Blood concentrations of Be, Mn, Hg and Pb, and urinary levels of Cd, Cr, Ni and V were also determined. In plant workers, the current levels of organic substances and metals in blood and urine did not show any increase for any of the compounds analysed (excepting urinary V). By contrast, plasma levels of PCDD/Fs and PCBs 28, 52, 101, 138 and 153 were significantly lower than the respective baseline concentrations. The current chlorophenol concentrations in urine were similar or lower than the baseline levels, with the exception of 2,5-DCP that showed a significant increase. The concentrations of organic and inorganic substances found in this study do not differ from those corresponding to non-occupationally exposed subjects.
Abstract The compound 2,3,5,6-tetrachloropyridinol (TCP) is a known inhibitor of the rat liver vitamin K-dependent carboxylase. A series of chlorinated phenols was also assayed for their abilities to inhibit the carboxylase in vitro . One compound, 2,3,5,6-tetrachlorophenol, was as potent a carboxylase inhibitor as TCP (I 50 = 5–10 μ M). Four compounds with substituents in the 4 position exhibited I 50 values 5–20 times greater than the identical structures with hydrogen in the 4 position. Tetrachloroanisol, the methyl ether of tetrachlorophenol, did not inhibit the reaction, and inhibition by 2,5-dichlorophenol, which has a p K a of 7.2, was pH dependent, suggesting that the anionic form of the phenol is the inhibitor. No other direct structure/function correlations were evident. Previous reports have shown that TCP inhibition of the carboxylase is not competitive versus vitamin K in vitro , but that in vivo antagonism by TCP can be reversed with vitamin K. Rats given 40 mg/kg TCP had decreased plasma prothrombin levels and increased amounts of liver microsomal prothrombin precursors, whereas rats injected with 1 mg vitamin K 24 hr before the TCP injection had normal levels of both. Vitamin K administration could not overcome completely the effects of 100 mg/kg TCP. Animals injected with TCP had increased levels of vitamin K 2,3-epoxide in the liver, which would be consistent with a partial inhibition of the microsomal vitamin K-epoxide reductase by this anticoagulant.
Abstract Background Phthalate and phenol exposure is prevalent among the general population and of potential concern for pregnant women and children because of their suspected susceptibility to endocrine effects. Objectives To evaluate the extent of exposure to several phthalates and phenols in a sample of Spanish pregnant women – according to their individual characteristics (age, social class, education, and body mass index) – and children who participated in the INMA — Infancia y Medio Ambiente (Environment and Childhood) project. Methods One spot urine sample was taken during the third trimester of pregnancy from 120 pregnant women and from 30 4-year old children belonging to 5 Spanish birth cohorts, and analyzed for 11 phthalate metabolites and 9 phenols. Results Three metabolites of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, mono-2-ethyl-5-carboxypentyl phthalate, mono-2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl phthalate, and mono-2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl phthalate; two metabolites of dibutyl phthalates, mono-isobutyl phthalate and mono-n-butyl phthalate; monoethyl phthalate (MEP), the main metabolite of diethyl phthalate; and two phenols, methyl paraben (M-PB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol were detected in the urine samples of all women. The highest urinary concentrations were for MEP and M-PB. Urinary concentrations of all phthalate metabolites and of 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and bisphenol A were lower in the pregnant women than in the children. Among women, a positive relationship with social class and education was shown for most of the phthalate metabolites and phenols. Almost all phthalate metabolites varied by region even after adjusting for social class and education. Conclusions Phthalate and phenol exposures are prevalent in a group of pregnant women and young children, two susceptible populations, and these exposures might be positively related to social class.
Abstract Our goal was to determine whether changes induced in TiO2 by sintering have a net effect on the photocatalytic removal rate of trace organics in water that depends on the organic. To that end, we have used (i) commercialized TiO2 samples prepared by varying the sintering temperature of the parent TiO2; (ii) several probe molecules: phenol, anisole, 4-chlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 4-chlorobenzoic acid, pyridine and dichloroacetic acid. For aromatics, except pyridine, the removal rates increased with sintering temperature, whereas the opposite was true for pyridine (with one exception) and dichloroacetic acid. These results can be interpreted on the basis of the following hypotheses: decarboxylation requires direct pollutant–TiO2 contact; pyridine can react by formation of a N-centered radical cation; photocatalytic hydroxylation can occur within the near-surface solution layers. This last hypothesis was checked by comparing the removal rates of some of the probes over powdered TiO2 to rates over TiO2 coatings where the accessibility to the TiO2 surface was restricted by a SiO2 binder. In practice, the consequences are that one test pollutant does not suffice to quantitatively compare photocatalytic activities, and the selection of an optimal TiO2 sintering temperature for photocatalytic water treatment depends on the target pollutant(s).
Organometallic complexes made of Al13 polycations associated with triblock copolymers polyethylene oxide–polypropylene oxide–polyethylene oxide (PEO–PPO–PEO) were intercalated into montmorillonite to synthesise novel modified clay adsorbents. Three copolymers PEO–PPO–PEO (pluronics; BASF) with increasing PPO wt.% (20, 50, and 90%) were used at increasing ratios pluronic/Al13 in the pillaring solution. The resulting samples were characterised by X-ray diffraction (XRD), chemical analyses, combined TGA–DTA, IR spectrometry, and zeta potential measurements. In all cases, the organic and inorganic moieties are co-intercalated. Modified clays involving the most lipophilic pluronic are readily distinguished from the two other ones. For the two most hydrophilic polymers, the organic carbon content of the final clay composites reaches a maximum value whereas it increases regularly with the amount of polymer in the synthesis solution for the samples involving the most lipophilic pluronic. This is shown to be due to the physisorption of lipophilic pluronic molecules onto the external surface of clay layers. The adsorption capacity of the resulting materials towards 4-monochlorophenol (4-MCP) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) was then tested. Batch adsorption isotherms reveal that the hydrophobicity of the polymer is the main factor controlling the adsorption of organic pollutants.
Abstract The anaerobic biodegradability and inhibition potential of ozonation products of four biorefractory aromatic compounds ( o -cresol, benzenesulfonic acid, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dinitrophenol) were evaluated in this study. The ozonation products of all four compounds tested were biodegradable to methane and the biodegradability improved with increasing dose of ozone. Early ozonation products of o -cresol and benzenesulfonic acid were more inhibitory than the initial compounds while ozonation reduced the toxicity of 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dinitrophenol. Ozonation products formed in the basic pH range were more biodegradable and were less inhibitory than those formed in the acid pH range under the same dose of ozone.
Abstract p-Dichlorobenzene is used widely in the United States as a room deodorizer, a moth repellent, and a precursor for a polymer. In a previous study of selected children in Arkansas, we found that 96% of the children had detectable urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol, the metabolite of p-dichlorobenzene. In the current study, we found that, in a sample of 1 000 adults who lived throughout the United States, 98% had detectable levels of 2,5-dichlorophenol in their urine, and 96% had detectable levels of p-dichlorobenzene in their blood. Urinary 2,5-dichlorophenol concentrations ranged up to 8 700 μg/l (median and mean concentrations of 30 μg/l and 200 μg/l, respectively). p-Dichlorobenzene blood concentrations ranged up to 49 μg/l, with median and mean concentrations of 0.33 μg/l and 2.1 μg/l, respectively. The Pearson correlation coefficient for 2,5-dichlorophenol in urine and p-dichlorobenzene in blood was .82 (p < .0001), thus demonstrating a strong association between these exposure measu...
Chlorophenols represent an important class of environmental water pollutants. 1 Many of these compounds are present in waste waters from petrochemical, coal tar, plastic and pesticidal chemical industries, which produce them as chemical intermediates or generate them during chlorination of effluents containing phenolic compounds. [2] [3] [4] Industrial waste waters are not the only source of chlorophenols. They could be present in domestic waters since they are widely used as pesticides, desinfectants and antiseptics. In addition, the common water treatment with chlorine could generate chlorophenols since chlorine reacts quite fast with phenols. 5 Chlorophenols can be oxidized by chemical, photochemical and microbiological processes. 2, 3 However, biological treatment of waste waters containing chlorinated phenols requires longer retention times and in the case of higher concentrations, the activated sludge formation can be substantially intoxicated and suppressed. 6 The photochemical degradation of a given chlorophenol is strongly dependent on its absorption spectra. 7 In this type of degradation, a haloaromatic compound reacts with •OH radical and the halogen atom is replaced by a hydroxyl group in the aromatic ring. The type of products that are formed depends on the position of the chlorine atom. For example, 2-chlorophenol gives predominantly pyrocatechol, on the other hand, 3-chlorophenol gives resorcinol. Photochemical irradiation of 4-chlorophenol gives several compounds, such as; hydroquinone, benzoquinone and benzenetriol. These compounds are obtained in acidic and basic conditions, but their concentrations change depending on the pH of the solution. 8 Chlorophenols can also be oxidized by photocatalytic processes, in which photo-induced holes in semiconductor particles oxidize hydroxide ions or water molecules adsorbed on the surface of the particles to produce •OH radicals which subsequently attack adsorbed organic molecules. [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] In the photocatalytic oxidation reported by Tseng and Huang, 18 the complete mineralization of 3-chlorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,6-dichlorophenol was observed. Several research groups 19, 20 have reported the reaction mechanisms and the reaction rate equations for the photocatalytic degradation of different chlorophenols. Photocatalytic degradation pathways, product yields and reaction rates depend on the reaction conditions. In the case of phenol oxidation, Okamoto suggested that phenol undergoes complete mineralization by three different pathways and identified hydroquinone, catechol, 1,2,4-benzenetriol, 2-hydroxybenzoquinone and benzoquinone in the degradation pathways. 21, 22 27 Ozone also has been used to oxidize organic contaminants and it is stronger than hydrogen peroxide. 28 It is usually generated in situ, it can react directly with the organic contaminant since it is a strongly dipolar molecule or it can react in an indirect manner by means of the •OH radicals that are produced upon its decomposition. In any case, the mechanistic pathway observed in this oxidation depends on the pH of the solution.
alpha 2u-Globulin (alpha 2u) has been shown to accumulate in the kidneys of male rats treated with 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (TMP). 2,4,4-Trimethyl-2-pentanol (TMP-2-OH), a metabolite of TMP, is found reversibly bound to alpha 2u isolated from the kidneys of these treated rats. The objectives of the following study were to characterize the ability of [3H]TMP-2-OH to bind to alpha 2u in vitro and to determine whether other compounds that cause this protein to accumulate have the same binding characteristics. Although compounds that have been shown to cause the accumulation of alpha 2u in male rat kidneys compete in vitro with [3H]TMP-2-OH for binding to alpha 2u, they do so to varying degrees. The binding affinity (Kd) of the [3H]TMP-2-OH-alpha 2u complex was calculated to be on the order of 10(-7) M. The inhibition constant values (Ki) determined for d-limonene, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol were all in the range 10(-4) M, whereas the Ki values for isophorone, 2,4,4- or 2,2,4-trimethyl-1-pentanol, and d-limonene oxide were determined to be in the range 10(-6) and 10(-7) M, respectively. TMP and 2,4,4- and 2,2,4-trimethylpentanoic acid did not compete for binding. This suggests that other factors, besides binding, are involved in the accumulation of alpha 2u. In this study the ability of a chemical to bind to alpha 2u was used as a measure of biological activity to assess structure-activity relationships among the chemicals tested and known to cause the accumulation of alpha 2u. The results so far suggest that binding is dependent on both hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen bonding.
OBJECTIVE ::: To examine the association between exposure to para-dichlorobenzene, measured as urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), and thyroid function in US adolescents. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN ::: A nationally representative subsample of 618 adolescents aged 12-19 years in the 2007-2008 and 2011-2012 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey was analyzed for the association of urinary 2,5-DCP with serum thyroid function measures using multivariate logistic and general linear regression models. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: After adjusting for potential confounders, we found a significantly positive association between urinary concentrations of 2,5-DCP and serum levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone and thyroglobulin in adolescents. Furthermore, urinary 2,5-DCP was associated with an increased prevalence of hypothyroidism in the study population. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: This study demonstrates a potential relationship between para-dichlorobenzene exposure, measured as urinary 2,5-DCP, and thyroid dysfunction in adolescents; however, further studies are needed to confirm our findings and to elucidate mechanisms of action.
The objectives of the present research were (i) to report the mass balance of chlorine during pentachlorophenol (PCP) photodegradation and (ii) to reveal the photodegradation pathway experimentally with a theoretical proof based on the density functional theory (DFT). The chlorine of PCP was completely mineralized to produce chloride ions after 24 hours of UV irradiation. As intermediates, 2,3,5,6-tetrachlorophenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol were identified. At least 80% of the chlorine balance during PCP photodegradation was accounted by PCP, these intermediates, and chloride ions. A DFT calculation showed differences in the C-Cl bond dissociation energy level and the positions of respective PCP molecular and the PCP intermediates. The dechlorination intermediates predicted using the calculated C-Cl bond dissociation energy were consistent with those experimentally confirmed, indicating the feasibility of this theoretical method in predicting the dechlorination pathway.
The Zeeman effect of chlorine nuclear quadrupole resonance in polycrystalline samples of 2,6-, 2,5 and 3,5-dichlorophenol has been investigated at room temperature in order to study the effect of hydrogen bonding on the electric field gradient asymmetry parameter η. While the two n.q.r. lines in 3,5-dichlorophenol gave an asymmetry parameter of ≈ 10%, those in 2,6- and 2,5-dichlorophenol gave different values of η for the two chlorines. The chlorine atom which is ortho to the OH group and involved in hydrogen bonding (i.e., corresponding to the low frequency line) gave an asymmetry parameter of 0.21 in 2,6-dichlorophenol and 0.17 in 2,5-dichlorophenol while the other chlorine (i.e., corresponding to the high frequency line) gave a lower value of 0.12 in 2,6-dichlorophenol and 0.11 in 2,5-dichlorophenol. These values of η are discussed in terms of hydrogen bonding and bond parameters.
We explored the possibility of determining some pesticides and process intermediates by ion chromatography. Some applications of this technique, standardized and adopted to meet the requirements of Gharda Chemicals (which is a leading producer of agrochemicals in India), will be presented in this communication. These include analysis of the finished products [(a) dicamba dimethylamine (DMA)/potassium/sodium salt acid and (b) 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D)], and the process intermediates [(c) tetrachlorobutyric acid and (d) glyoxylic acid/glycollic acid/formic acid]. Ion chromatographic analysis of sub-ppm levels of 2,5-dibromo- and monochlorobromo-phenols, in 2,5-dichlorophenol, after adequate sample preparation steps, is also being presented.
BACKGROUND ::: Exposures to environmental phenols and parabens may be harmful, especially in utero. Prior studies have demonstrated high within-person variability of urinary concentrations across pregnancy. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: We sought to measure phenol and paraben biomarker concentrations for the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort (MoBa) study, assess within-person variability, and investigate any possible external phenol or paraben contamination of specimens. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We collected three spot urine samples at approximately 17, 23, and 29 weeks gestation in a hospital setting and added a preservative containing ethyl paraben. We measured urinary concentrations and within-person variability for phenols and parabens in a MoBa sample (n = 45), including a subgroup of 15 participants previously randomly selected for a bisphenol A (BPA) exposure study who had unusually high total BPA concentrations. Additionally, we compared reliability results for total, conjugated, and free concentrations of phenolic compounds. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: We detected total and free BPA, butyl paraben, propyl paraben, and methyl paraben in 100% of samples, total benzophenone-3 in 95% of samples, and infrequently detected free benzophenone-3 and total and free 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) for total, conjugated, and free concentrations ranged from relatively low for BPA to moderate for propyl paraben. ICCs were generally similar overall and by subgroup. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Using conjugated concentrations improved reliability estimates only for BPA. Measuring total and free concentrations, an approach that may be useful for future studies, allowed us to identify likely BPA and butyl paraben contamination of archived MoBa urine specimens.
The invention provides an industrial synthesis method of a dicamba key intermediate 2,5-dichlorophenol. The industrial synthesis method comprises the following steps: firstly, evenly mixing appropriate stabilizer, catalyst and solvent together under a temperature condition not higher than 30 DEG C to obtain a premixed liquid, and then, gradually and dropwise adding a feeding liquid comprising a substrate and an oxidizing agent to perform a synthetic reaction for 3-5 hours, wherein the premixed liquid comprises 1/500-1/300 parts by weight of stabilizer, 1/500-1/50 parts by weight of catalyst and 1-5 parts by weight of solvent; the feeding liquid is prepared from 1 part by weight of substrate 1,4-dichlorobenzene, 1/10-2 parts by weight of oxidizing agent and 2-4 parts by weight of solvent and by virtue of stirring under the condition of 20-30 DEG C for 0.5-1 hour. The method is high in controllability; the utilization efficiency and product yield of the substrate are improved, and the stability of the product yield between various production batches is effectively guaranteed; besides, the industrial synthesis method is low in cost and advantageous for industrial production.
Phenols, including bisphenol A (BPA) and benzophenone-3, and parabens, which also contain a phenolic ring, are found in a number of common consumer products [Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 2009, 2010] . The ubiquity of human exposure to phenolic compounds has sparked questions regarding toxicity, especially from exposures during sensitive periods, for example, in utero (Bushnik et al. 2010; Calafat et al. , 2010 Mahalingaiah et al. 2008; Vandenberg et al. 2010; Wolff et al. 2008; Woodruff et al. 2011) . Prenatal exposures to phenols have been associated with decreased gestational age at birth (BPA and benzophenone-3) (Tang et al. 2013) , decreased birth weight (2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol) (Philippat et al. 2013; Wolff et al. 2008) , and child behavior problems, with some evidence of sex differences (BPA) (Braun et al. 2009 (Braun et al. , 2011b Harley et al. 2013; Perera et al. 2012) . Concentrations of phenol and paraben biomarkers in spot urine samples, which provide exposure measurements at one point in time, are frequently used to estimate recent exposures. However, many phenolic compounds are rapidly excreted (Völkel et al. 2002) , and the degree to which a single measure can be used to represent longer-term or cumulative exposure depends partly on population-specific factors such as geographic location, demographic characteristics, and lifestyle Meeker et al. 2013; Ye et al. 2009 ).
Background: Exposures to environmental phenols and parabens may be harmful, especially in utero. Prior studies have demonstrated high within-person variability of urinary concentrations across pregnancy. oBjectives: We sought to measure phenol and paraben biomarker concentrations for the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort (MoBa) study, assess within-person variability, and investigate any possible external phenol or paraben contamination of specimens. Methods: We collected three spot urine samples at approximately 17, 23, and 29 weeks gestation in a hospital setting and added a preservative containing ethyl paraben. We measured urinary concentrations and within-person variability for phenols and parabens in a MoBa sample (n = 45), including a subgroup of 15 participants previously randomly selected for a bisphenol A (BPA) exposure study who had unusually high total BPA concentrations. Additionally, we compared reliability results for total, conjugated, and free concentrations of phenolic compounds. results: We detected total and free BPA, butyl paraben, propyl paraben, and methyl paraben in 100% of samples, total benzophenone-3 in 95% of samples, and infrequently detected free benzophenone-3 and total and free 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol. Intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) for total, conjugated, and free concentrations ranged from relatively low for BPA to moderate for propyl paraben. ICCs were generally similar overall and by subgroup. conclusions: Using conjugated concentrations improved reliability estimates only for BPA. Measuring total and free concentrations, an approach that may be useful for future studies, allowed us to identify likely BPA and butyl paraben contamination of archived MoBa urine specimens. In field studies, exposure assessment is complicated by the ubiquitous presence of phenolic compounds in the environment. This has implications for population exposure levels as well as protocols for sample collection, processing, and analysis, which must be designed to minimize the potential for external sample contamination (Calafat and Needham 2009) . For example, the use of BPA in laboratory supplies necessitates fastidious handling to ensure sample integrity . Both collection conditions and preservatives to prevent bacterial growth in urine can contribute to contamination of urine samples with BPA (Longnecker et al. 2013) . Similarly, personal care products used by laboratory technicians that contain benzophenone-3 and parabens have contaminated biological samples .
Human exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) has received considerable attention over the last three decades. However, little is known about the influence of co-exposure to multiple EDCs on effect-biomarkers such as oxidative stress in Brazilian children. In this study, concentrations of 40 EDCs were determined in urine samples collected from 300 Brazilian children of ages 6-14 years and data were analyzed by advanced data mining techniques. Oxidative DNA damage was evaluated from the urinary concentrations of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8OHDG). Fourteen EDCs, including bisphenol A (BPA), methyl paraben (MeP), ethyl paraben (EtP), propyl paraben (PrP), 3,4-dihydroxy benzoic acid (3,4-DHB), methyl-protocatechuic acid (OH-MeP), ethyl-protocatechuic acid (OH-EtP), triclosan (TCS), triclocarban (TCC), 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone (BP3), 2,4-dihydroxybenzophenone (BP1), bisphenol A bis(2,3-dihydroxypropyl) glycidyl ether (BADGE·2H2O), 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) were found in >50% of the urine samples analyzed. The highest geometric mean concentrations were found for MeP (43.1 ng/mL), PrP (3.12 ng/mL), 3,4-DHB (42.2 ng/mL), TCS (8.26 ng/mL), BP3 (3.71 ng/mL), and BP1 (4.85 ng/mL), and exposures to most of which were associated with personal care product (PCP) use. Statistically significant associations were found between urinary concentrations of 8OHDG and BPA, MeP, 3,4-DHB, OH-MeP, OH-EtP, TCS, BP3, 2,4-DCP, and 2,5-DCP. After clustering the data on the basis of i) 14 EDCs (exposure levels), ii) demography (age, gender and geographic location), and iii) 8OHDG (effect), two distinct clusters of samples were identified. 8OHDG concentration was the most critical parameter that differentiated the two clusters, followed by OH-EtP. When 8OHDG was removed from the dataset, predictability of exposure variables increased in the order of: OH-EtP > OH-MeP > 3,4-DHB > BPA > 2,4-DCP > MeP > TCS > EtP > BP1 > 2,5-DCP. Our results showed that co-exposure to OH-EtP, OH-MeP, 3,4-DHB, BPA, 2,4-DCP, MeP, TCS, EtP, BP1, and 2,5-DCP was associated with DNA damage in children. This is the first study to report exposure of Brazilian children to a wide range of EDCs and the data mining approach further strengthened our findings of chemical co-exposures and biomarkers of effect.
Hormonally active environmental exposures may alter timing of puberty. We investigated urinary biomarkers of 9 phthalates and 13 phenols including 3 phytoestrogens in relation to menarche among girls enrolled at 6-8 years of age during 2004-2007 in the Breast Cancer and Environment Research Program. This multi-ethnic cohort study of 1239 girls at three US sites was followed through 2015. For urinary metabolites assayed in baseline samples, age at menarche was available on 1051 girls. Associations of biomarker quintiles with menarche were estimated from Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for race, ethnicity, and caregiver education (aHR, 95% confidence intervals [CI]). Urinary enterolactone was associated with later age at menarche (aHR 0.82 [0.66-1.03] for 5th vs 1st quintile, p-trend 0.028). Effects were stronger in girls with below-median body mass index (aHR 0.75 [0.59-0.95], 3rd vs 1st enterolactone tertile) compared to higher body mass (aHR 1.04 [0.82-1.33]). 2,5-Dichlorophenol was associated w...
Phenolic compounds represent a class of environmental chemicals with potentially endocrine-disrupting capabilities. We investigated longitudinal associations between childhood exposure to phenols, from both manmade and natural sources, and subsequent measures of adiposity among girls enrolled in the Breast Cancer and the Environment Research Program between 2004 and 2007. Baseline (ages 6-8 years) urinary concentrations were obtained for creatinine and phenol metabolites: enterolactone, genistein, daidzein, benzophenone-3, bisphenol A, the sum of parabens (methyl, ethyl, and propyl parabens), 2,5-dichlorophenol, and triclosan. Body mass index (weight (kg)/height (m)2), waist circumference, and percent body fat were measured at annual or semiannual examinations through 2015 (n = 1,017). Linear mixed-effects regression was used to estimate how baseline concentrations of phenols (tertile groups) were related to changes in girls' adiposity measurements from ages 7 through 15 years. Enterolactone was inversely associated with body mass index, waist circumference, and percent body fat, while 2,5-dichlorophenol was positively associated with these measurements. A nonmonotonic association was observed for triclosan and girls' adiposity; however, it was due to effect modification by baseline overweight status. Triclosan was positively associated with adiposity only among overweight girls. These results suggest that exposure to specific phenols during childhood may influence adiposity through adolescence.
A conventional thermal decomposition method was used to prepare Sn-Ir electrodes modified with Sb-, Co-, and Ce-based oxides, which were applied to synthesize 2,5-dichlorophenol by the electrooxidation of 1,4-dichlorobenzene. The morphology of the electrodes was investigated by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD). Cyclic voltammetry (CV) and linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) tests were employed to analyse the electrolysis experiment and electrocatalytic activity of the electrodes. The results showed that Sn-Ir electrodes doped with designated amounts of Sb, Co or Ce could compact the coating, and improve the stability of the electrode. Typically, Sn-Ir doped with 1% Ce had a good response in the LSV measurement, which yielded a 2,5-dichlorophenol concentration of 45% with a selectivity of 85%. The conversion rate of 1,4-dichlorobenzene was 53%, which indicated that the Sn-Ir-Ce electrode had a better catalytic activity.
Phenolic compounds represent a class of environmental chemicals with potentially endocrine-disrupting capabilities. We investigated longitudinal associations between childhood exposure to phenols, from both manmade and natural sources, and subsequent measures of adiposity among girls enrolled in the Breast Cancer and the Environment Research Program between 2004 and 2007. Baseline (ages 6-8 years) urinary concentrations were obtained for creatinine and phenol metabolites: enterolactone, genistein, daidzein, benzophenone-3, bisphenol A, the sum of parabens (methyl, ethyl, and propyl parabens), 2,5-dichlorophenol, and triclosan. Body mass index (weight (kg)/ height (m) 2 ), waist circumference, and percent body fat were measured at annual or semiannual examinations through 2015 (n = 1,017). Linear mixed-effects regression was used to estimate how baseline concentrations of phenols (tertile groups) were related to changes in girls' adiposity measurements from ages 7 through 15 years. Enterolactone was inversely associated with body mass index, waist circumference, and percent body fat, while 2,5-dichlorophenol was positively associated with these measurements. A nonmonotonic association was observed for triclosan and girls' adiposity; however, it was due to effect modification by baseline overweight status. Triclosan was positively associated with adiposity only among overweight girls. These results suggest that exposure to specific phenols during childhood may influence adiposity through adolescence.
Abstract Background: Increasing prevalence of childhood obesity has been seen in the United States and other parts of the world. Environmental chemical exposures might play a role in the worldwide obesity epidemic. Objective: This study was conducted to assess the association of exposure to environmental pesticides with childhood obesity. Methods: A total of 6770 subjects aged 6–19 years were selected from the 2003–2004 and 2005–2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Exposure to environmental pesticides was determined based on the concentrations of pesticide residues in urine. Multivariate logistic regression was performed using SAS 9.1.3 to assess the association between pesticide levels in urine and childhood obesity with the adjustment of potential confounders, including age, gender, race, income, and total fat intake. Results: A dose-dependent increase in prevalence of obesity was observed in the groups with inter-quartile urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP). Logistic regression revealed a significant association between adjusted third (Q3) (AOR: 1.47; 95% CI: 1.09, 1.97) and fourth (Q4) (AOR: 1.44; 95% CI: 1.06, 1.95) inter-quartile urinary 2,5-DCP levels and childhood obesity. However, urinary concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenol were not shown to be significantly associated with childhood obesity. Conclusion: This study suggests a possible relationship between exposure to 2,5-DCP and obesity in children.
To study potential environmental influences on puberty in girls, we investigated urinary biomarkers in relation to age at menarche. Phenols and phthalates were measured at baseline (6-8 years of age). Menarche was ascertained over 11 years for 1051 girls with menarche and biomarkers. Hazards ratios were estimated from Cox models adjusted for race/ethnicity and caregiver education (aHR, 95% confidence intervals [CI] for 5th vs 1st quintile urinary biomarker concentrations). 2,5-Dichlorophenol was associated with earlier menarche (aHR 1.34 [1.06-1.71]); enterolactone was associated with later menarche (aHR 0.82 [0.66-1.03]), as was mono-3-carboxypropyl phthalate (MCPP) (aHR 0.73 [0.59-0.91]); the three p-trends were <0.05. Menarche differed by 4-7 months across this range. Enterolactone and MCPP associations were stronger in girls with below-median body mass index. These analytes were also associated with age at breast development in this cohort. Findings from this prospective study suggest that some childhood exposures are associated with pubertal timing.
In the present research, the ZnO-CuO nanoplate composite (ZCNC), solid-phase microextraction (SPME) fiber coating, was prepared and its extraction capability for certain chlorophenols (CPs) was studied through directly sampling the typical CPs mixed standard solution of 4-chlorophenol, 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol with high performance liquid chromatography. ZCNC thickness was in the range of 50-65 nm. The effective variables on ZCNC-SPME extraction efficiency were extraction time, salt percentage, and desorption time. Accordingly, a multivariate strategy was applied based on an experimental design by using central composite design for optimizing the significant factors affecting the extraction efficiency. The detection limit and relative standard deviation (RSD) (n = 6), that include repeatability and reproducibility as the target analytes, were in the range of 0.5-5 ng ml(-1) and 5.1-14 % of standard solutions at 50 ng ml(-1) concentration of CPs, respectively. The developed technique is believed to be successfully applicable to preconcentration and determination of target analytes in environmental water and tomato juice samples. Graphical Abstract Application of zinc oxide-copper oxide nanoplates composite for extraction of chlorophenols in water and tomato juice samples and optimizing condition by experimental design method.
To study potential environmental influences on puberty in girls, we investigated urinary biomarkers in relation to age at menarche. Phenols and phthalates were measured at baseline (6-8 years of age). Menarche was ascertained over 11 years for 1051 girls with menarche and biomarkers. Hazards ratios were estimated from Cox models adjusted for race/ethnicity and caregiver education (aHR, 95% confidence intervals [CI] for 5th vs 1st quintile urinary biomarker concentrations). 2,5-Dichlorophenol was associated with earlier menarche (aHR 1.34 [1.06-1.71]); enterolactone was associated with later menarche (aHR 0.82 [0.66-1.03]), as was mono-3-carboxypropyl phthalate (MCPP) ); the three p-trends were <0.05. Menarche differed by 4-7 months across this range. Enterolactone and MCPP associations were stronger in girls with below-median body mass index. These analytes were also associated with age at breast development in this cohort. Findings from this prospective study suggest that some childhood exposures are associated with pubertal timing.
Batch photodegradation of pentachlorophenol (PCP) was conducted with ultraviolet irradiation. The main intermediates were identified as 2,3,5,6-tetrachlorophenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol. Based on the density functional theory, atomic charge values were applied to reveal the photodegradation pathway. A comparison of the results of the experiment confirms that PCP molecules are dechlorinated in the descending order of their atomic charge values. From these results, it appears that determining the atomic charge values of organohalogen compounds is a promising method for predicting the dechlorination position in photodegradation.
Urinary concentrations of phenols or their metabolites have been used as biomarkers to assess the prevalence of exposure to these compounds in the general population. Total urinary concentrations, which include both free and conjugated (glucuronide and sulfated) forms of the compounds, are usually reported. From a toxicologic standpoint, the relative concentrations of the free species compared with their conjugated analogs can be important because conjugation may reduce the potential biologic activity of the phenols. In this study, we determined the percentage of glucuronide and sulfate conjugates of three phenolic compounds, bisphenol A (BPA), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), and 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone (benzophenone-3, BP-3) in 30 urine samples collected between 2000 and 2004 from a demographically diverse group of anonymous adult volunteers. We used a sensitive on-line solid phase extraction-isotope dilution-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. These three phenols were detected frequently in the urine samples tested. Only small percentages of the compounds (9.5% for BPA, and 3% for 2,5-DCP and BP-3) were excreted in their free form. The percentage of the sulfate conjugate was about twice that of the free compound. The glucuronide conjugate was the major metabolite, representing 69.5% (BPA), 89% (2,5-DCP), and 84.6% (BP-3) of the total amount excreted in urine. These results are in agreement with those reported before which suggested that BPA-glucuronide was an important BPA urinary metabolite in humans. To our knowledge, this is the first study describing the distribution of urinary conjugates of BP-3 and 2,5-DCP in humans.
Rats and mice (8 animals per species per group) were injected subcutaneously or intraperitoneally with paradichlorobenzene (PDCB) at doses of 0, 100, 200 and 400 mg/kg/day, 4-5 days a week, for 8 weeks (for rats) and either 2 or 6 weeks (for mice). Prostate and seminal vesicle weights were significantly increased in PDCB-treated rats but not in mice. Major histopathologic injuries were not found in testis and epididymis of both species. Daily sperm production was depressed in both species in a dose-response manner. Serum testosterone levels were not significantly changed in both species. Sperm morphology was evaluated in rats intraperitoneally administered PDCB at a dose of 800 mg/kg. Abnormal sperms with reduced hook, bent neck, coiled flagellum, bent flagellum and bent flagellum tip were significantly increased in treated rats. In Hershberger assay, PDCB administration increased weights of ventral prostate gland, seminal vesicle, levator ani/bulbocavernosus muscle and glans penis in castrated rats, and also weights of ventral prostate gland and glans penis in castrated mice. PDCB and 2,5-dichlorophenol (the major metabolite) did not bind androgen receptor (AR) up to 10 mM. In conclusion, PDCB affects sperm production and morphology but is somewhat androgenic independently from AR binding in rats and mice.
Phenols and parabens are used in a multitude of consumer products resulting in ubiquitous human exposure. Animal and in vitro studies suggest that exposure to these compounds may be related to a number of adverse health outcomes, as well as potential mediators such as oxidative stress and inflammation. We examined urinary phenol (bisphenol A (BPA), triclosan (TCS), benzophenone-3 (BP-3), 2,4-dichlorophenol (24-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (25-DCP)) and paraben (butyl paraben (B-PB), methyl paraben (M-PB), propyl paraben (P-PB)) concentrations measured three times during pregnancy in relation to markers of oxidative stress and inflammation among participants in the Puerto Rico Testsite for Exploring Contamination Threats (PROTECT) project. Serum markers of inflammation (c-reactive protein (CRP), IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)) were measured twice during pregnancy (n = 105 subjects, 187 measurements) and urinary markers of oxidative stress (8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (OHdG) and isoprostane) were measured three times during pregnancy (n = 54 subjects, 146 measurements). We used linear mixed models to assess relationships between natural log-transformed exposure and outcome biomarkers while accounting for within individual correlation across study visits. After adjustment for urinary specific gravity, study visit, maternal pre-pregnancy BMI, and maternal education, an interquartile range (IQR) increase in urinary BPA was associated with 21% higher OHdG (p = 0.001) and 29% higher isoprostane (p = 0.0002), indicating increased oxidative stress. The adjusted increase in isoprostane per IQR increase in marker of exposure was 17% for BP-3, 27% for B-PB, and 20% for P-PB (all p < 0.05). An IQR increase in triclosan (TCS) was associated with 31% higher serum concentrations of IL-6 (p = 0.007), a pro-inflammatory cytokine. In contrast, IQR increases in BP-3 and B-PB were significantly associated with 16% and 18% lower CRP, a measure of systemic inflammation. Our findings suggest that exposure to BPA, select parabens, and TCS during pregnancy may be related to oxidative stress and inflammation, potential mechanisms by which exposure to these compounds may influence birth outcomes and other adverse health effects, but additional research is needed.
Abstract Acute oral LD50 values were determined for 2-, 3-, and 4-chlorophenol, 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, 3,4-, and 3,5 dichlorophenol and pentachlorophenol in male and female mice. LD50 values (mg/kg) ranged from 117 (females) and 177 (males) for pentachlorophenol to 2389 (females) and 2643 (males) for 3,5-dichlorophenol. It was found that 2-chlorophenol and 3-chlorophenol were considerably more toxic than the dichlorophenol series. Values for males and females were generally similar, the major differences being with pentachlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol, where in both cases the female LD50 was lower.
Human exposure to modern non-persistent chemicals is difficult to ascertain in epidemiological studies as exposure patterns and excretion rates may show temporal and diurnal variations. The aim of this study was to assess the temporal variability in repeated measurements of urinary excretion of bisphenol A (BPA) and seven other phenols. All analytes were determined using TurboFlow-LC-MS/MS. Two spot, three first morning and three 24-h urine samples were collected from 33 young Danish men over a three months period. Temporal variability was estimated by means of intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs). More than 70% of the urine samples had detectable levels of BPA, triclosan (TCS), benzophenone-3 (BP-3) and sum of 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol (ΣDCP). We found low to moderate ICCs for BPA (0.10-0.42) and ΣDCP (0.39-0.72), whereas the ICCs for BP-3 (0.69-0.80) and TCS (0.55-0.90) were higher. The ICCs were highest for the two spot urine samples, which were collected approximately 4 days apart, compared with the 24-h urine samples and the first morning urine samples, which were collected approximately 40 days apart. A consequence of the considerable variability in urinary excretion of BPA may be misclassification of individual BPA exposure level in epidemiological studies, which may lead to attenuation of the association between BPA and outcomes. Our data do not support that collection of 24-h samples will improve individual exposure assessment for any of the analysed phenols.
A GC/MS method with enhanced sensitivity and specificity suitable for the determination of various chlorophenols in the urine of persons occupationally and environmentally exposed to diverse chlorinated aromatic hydrocarbons has been elaborated and compared with the method customarily used. After acid hydrolysis and steam distillation, followed by several clean-up steps, the chlorophenols have been derivatized with N-heptafluorobutyrylimidazole (HFBI), yielding ester derivatives. This procedure facilitates the detection of 3-and 4-monochlorophenol, 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol as well as 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol down to 0.1–1 μg/l, depending on the number of chlorine atoms. A comparison to the commonly used derivatization procedure with diazomethane revealed, except for 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, satisfactory conformity of both techniques. Due to an improvement of the detection limit by a factor of five for the monochlorophenols, for the first time the quantification of 3-monochlorophenol and the identification of 2-monochlorophenol as constituents of human urine have been possible as HFBI-derivatives. The excretion of mono-, di-, tri- and tetrachlorophenols in the urine of the general population could be confirmed.
We have developed a method to measure 12 urinary phenolic metabolites of pesticides or related chemicals. The target chemicals for our method are 2-isopropoxyphenol; 2,4-dichlorophenol; 2,5-dichlorophenol; carbofuranphenol; 2,4,5-trichlorophenol; 2,4,6-trichlorophenol; 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol; para-nitrophenol, ortho-phenylphenol, pentachlorophenol, 1-naphthol and 2-naphthol. The sample preparation involves enzyme hydrolysis, isolation of the target chemicals using solid phase extraction cartridges, a phase-transfer catalyzed derivatization, cleanup using sorbent-immobilized liquid/liquid extraction cartridges, and concentration of the sample. Derivatized samples are analyzed by capillary gas chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy using isotope dilution calibration for quantification. The limits of detection are in the mid ng/L range and the average coefficient of variation was below 15% for most of the analytes. Using our method, we measured concentrations of the target chemicals in urine samples from the general population.
Acid-base equilibria between 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCP) and various bases (LiOH, NaOH, and KOH) were studied in ambient to supercritical methanol, by measuring the absorption spectrum of DCP at alkali metal hydroxide molalities ranging up to 10 mmol⋅kg−1, at temperatures up to 250 °C and a pressure of 25.0 MPa. The spectrum was deconvoluted into contributions for the acidic (HA) and basic (A−) forms of DCP, taking into account a blue shift of the phenolate (A−) spectrum due to the effect of ion pairing with an alkali metal cation. Degrees of dissociation of DCP determined from the spectra suggested that the dissociation constant of DCP has a maximum around 150 °C, whereas that of KOH decreases with temperature. The phenolate-alkali metal ion pairing was examined from the peak shift of the phenolate spectrum in the presence of Li+, Na+, and K+. A smaller cation radius and higher temperature (thus a lower dielectric constant for methanol) give rise to stronger electrostatic interaction in the ion pair. The basicities of the alkali metal hydroxides in supercritical methanol were compared using DCP as an indicator, and were shown to follow the order LiOH < NaOH ≤ KOH. This order is the same as that for the catalytic effect of alkali metal hydroxides on the methylation of phenol in supercritical methanol (Takebayashi et al.: Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 47:704–709, 2008).
Pesticides are commonly used in tropical regions such as the Caribbean for both household and agricultural purposes. Of particular concern is exposure during pregnancy, as these compounds can cross the placental barrier and interfere with fetal development. The objective of this study was to evaluate exposure of pregnant women residing in 10 Caribbean countries to the following commonly used classes of pesticides in the Caribbean: organophosphates (OPs), carbamates, phenoxy acids, and chlorophenols. Out of 438 urine samples collected, 15 samples were randomly selected from each Caribbean country giving a total of 150 samples. Samples were analyzed for the following metabolites: six OP dialkylphosphate metabolites [dimethylphosphate (DMP), dimethylthiophosphate (DMTP), dimethyldithiophosphate (DMDTP), diethylphosphate (DEP), diethylthiophosphate (DETP) and diethyldithiophosphate (DEDTP)]; two carbamate metabolites [2-isopropoxyphenol (2-IPP) and carbofuranphenol]; one phenoxy acid 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D); and five chlorophenols [2,4-dichlorophenol (DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (TCP), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP), and pentachlorophenol (PCP)]. OP metabolites were consistently detected in ≥60% of the samples from Antigua and Barbuda, Bermuda, and Jamaica. Of the carbamate metabolites, 2-IPP was detected in seven of the 10 Caribbean countries with a detection frequency around 30%, whereas carbofuranphenol was detected in only one sample. The detection frequency for the phenoxy acid 2,4-D ranged from 20% in Grenada to a maximum of 67% in Belize. Evidence of exposure to chlorophenol pesticides was also established with 2,4-DCP by geometric means ranging from 0.52 μg L−1 in St Lucia to a maximum of 1.68 μg L−1 in Bermuda. Several extreme concentrations of 2,5-DCP were detected in four Caribbean countries—Belize (1100 μg L−1), Bermuda (870 μg L−1), Jamaica (1300 μg L−1), and St Kitts and Nevis (1400 μg L−1). 2,4,5-TCP, 2,4,6-TCP, and pentachlorophenol were rarely detected. This biomonitoring study underscores the need for Caribbean public health authorities to encourage their populations, and in particular pregnant women, to become more aware of the potential routes of exposure to pesticides and to utilize these chemicals more cautiously given the possible adverse effects such exposures can have on their unborn children and infants.
The age of menarche has been associated with metabolic and cardiovascular disease, as well as cancer risk. The decline in menarcheal age over the past century may be partially attributable to increased exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs). We assessed the influence of 26 phenol and phthalate biomarkers on the timing of menarche in a longitudinal cohort of Chilean girls. These EDCs were quantified in urine collected prior to the onset of breast development (Tanner 1; B1), and during adolescence (Tanner 4; B4). Multivariable accelerated failure time (AFT) models were used to analyze associations between biomarker concentrations and the age of menarche adjusting for body mass index (BMI) Z-score and maternal education, accounting for within-subject correlation. Several biomarkers were significantly associated with the age at menarche; however, these associations were dependent on the timing of biomarker assessment. A log(ng/ml) increase in B1 concentrations of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate biomarkers was associated with later menarche (hazard ratio (HR): 0.77; 95% CI: 0.60, 0.98), whereas higher B1 concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol and benzophenone-3 were associated with earlier menarche (HR: 1.13; 95% CI: 1.01, 1.27; HR: 1.17; 95% CI: 1.06, 1.29, respectively). Elevated B4 concentrations of monomethyl phthalate were similarly associated with earlier menarche (HR: 1.30; 95% CI: 1.10, 1.53). The impact of monoethyl phthalate and triclosan concentrations on pubertal timing were significantly modified by BMI Z-score. Higher monoethyl phthalate and triclosan concentrations were associated with earlier menarche among overweight or obese girls, but not among those that were normal weight. This study identifies modulation of sexual maturation by specific EDC biomarkers in Latina girls.
We assessed the influence of 26 phenol and phthalate biomarkers on the timing of menarche in a longitudinal cohort of Chilean girls. These EDCs were quantified in urine collected prior to the onset of breast development (Tanner 1; B1), and during adolescence (Tanner 4; B4). Multivariable accelerated failure time (AFT) models were used to analyze associations between biomarker concentrations and the age of menarche adjusting for body mass index (BMI) Z-score and maternal education, accounting for within-subject correlation. Results: Several biomarkers were significantly associated with the age at menarche; however, these associations were dependent on the timing of biomarker assessment. A log(ng/ml) increase in B1 concentrations of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate biomarkers was associated with later menarche (hazard ratio (HR): 0.77; 95% CI: 0.60, 0.98), whereas higher B1 concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol and benzophenone-3 were associated with earlier menarche (HR: 1.13; 95% CI: 1.01, 1.27; HR: 1.17; 95% CI: 1.06, 1.29, respectively). Elevated B4 concentrations of monomethyl phthalate were similarly associated with earlier menarche (HR: 1.30; 95% CI: 1.10, 1.53). The impact of monoethyl phthalate and triclosan concentrations on pubertal timing were significantly modified by BMI Z-score. Higher monoethyl phthalate and triclosan concentrations were associated with earlier menarche among overweight or obese girls, but not among those that were normal weight. Conclusions: This study identifies modulation of sexual maturation by specific EDC biomarkers in Latina girls.
A synthesis method of 2,5-dichlorophenol was described,it was 2,5-dichlorophenol synthesized from a relatively low toxicity intermediate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene in a solvent by alkaline hydrolyzation.In the presence of PTC,1,2,4-trichlorobenzene was hydrolyzed with NaOH in methanol at 195 ℃ for 6 hours.The content of recrystallized crude product 2,5-dichlorophenol was up to 97% with the yield 83%.The synthesis process was simple with convenient post-processing and a high purity of product.
We present a sensitive method for simultaneous determination of bisphenol A (BPA), benzophenone-3 (BP-3), 4-tert-octylphenol (t-OP), ortho-phenylphenol (OPP), four parabens (methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl parabens) and five chlorophenols (2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-triclorophenol), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP), and triclosan (TCS)), in human urine by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) mass spectrometry (MS). Samples were processed using enzymatic deconjugation of glucuronides followed by solid phase extraction (SPE) on a C18 cartridge and the eluate was concentrated. Analytes were separated by reversed-phase HPLC and then detected by atmospheric pressure chemical ionisation (APCI) MS and quantified by isotope dilution method. We describe details for optimisation of each step of the procedure. The sample treatment steps are straightforward and not labour-intensive and, therefore, permit a high sample throughput with excellent prospects for automation. This method shows low inter-day variation, and detection limits for most of the compounds are below 1 ng/mL in 1 mL of urine. The method accuracy was also verified by the analysis of proficiency testing urine samples.
Abstract Nuclear quadrupole resonance (NQR) Zeeman effect studies were carried out on cylindrical single crystals of 2,5-dichlorophenol, using the two 35 Cl-NQR frequencies. A self-quenched superregenerative NQR spectrometer was used, and the spectra were analysed ot obtain information on the nature of the crystalline unit cell. An analysis of the experimental data reveals that: (1) the results are in good agreement with the structural reports of Bavoux and Perrin; (2) the crystal unequivocally belongs to the monoclinic system; (3) there are two crystallographically equivalent but physically inequivalent directions for the principal field gradient axes for both the low- and high-frequency resonance lines; (4) as the number of physically inequivalent directions for each of the two resonance lines is two, the minimum number of molecules per unit cell is two; (5) the b axis (90°,90°) is identified as the symmetry axis; (6) the growth axis is slightly inclined to the c axis; (7) the asymmetry parameters obtained for the loci corresponding to the low-frequency line, which is hydrogen bonded, are greater than those for the high-frequency line, which is nonhydrogen bonded; (8) the double-bond character is greater for the hydrogen-bonded chlorine than for the non-hydrogen-bonded chlorine; (9) the ratios of the various bond characters estimated for both the low- and high-frequency resonance lines are 69:24:7 and 74:24:2.
Abstract Background: A number of phenols and parabens are added to consumer products for a variety of functions, and have been found at detectable levels in the majority of the U.S. population. Among other functions, thyroid hormones are essential in fetal neurodevelopment, and could be impacted by the endocrine disrupting effects of phenols and parabens. The present study investigated the association between ten maternal urinary phenol and paraben biomarkers (bisphenol S, triclosan, triclocarban, benzophenone-3, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and ethyl, butyl, methyl and propyl paraben) and four plasma thyroid hormones in 439 pregnant women in a case–control sample nested within a cohort study based in Boston, MA. Methods: Urine and blood samples were collected from up to four visits during pregnancy (median weeks of gestation at each visit: Visit 1: 9.64, Visit 2: 17.9, Visit 3: 26.0, Visit 4: 35.1). Linear mixed models were constructed to take into account the repeated measures jointly, followed by multivariate linear regression models stratified by gestational age to explore potential windows of susceptibility. Results: We observed decreased total triiodothyronine (T3) in relation to an IQR increase in benzophenone-3 (percent change [%Δ] = −2.07; 95% confidence interval [CI] = −4.16, 0.01), butyl paraben (%Δ = −2.76; 95% CI = −5.25, −0.26) and triclosan (%Δ = −2.53; 95% CI = −4.75, −0.30), and triclocarban at levels above the LOD (%Δ = −5.71; 95% CI = −10.45, −0.97). A 2.41% increase in T3 was associated with an IQR increase in methyl paraben (95% CI = 0.58, 4.24). We also detected a negative association between free thyroxine (FT4) and propyl paraben (%Δ = −3.14; 95% CI = −6.12, −0.06), and a suggestive positive association between total thyroxine (T4) and methyl paraben (%Δ = 1.19; 95% CI = −0.10, 2.47). Gestational age-specific multivariate regression analyses showed that the magnitude and direction of some of the observed associations were dependent on the timing of exposure. Conclusion: Certain phenols and parabens were associated with altered thyroid hormone levels during pregnancy, and the timing of exposure influenced the association between phenol and paraben, and hormone concentrations. These changes may contribute to downstream maternal and fetal health outcomes. Additional research is required to replicate the associations, and determine the potential biological mechanisms underlying the observed associations.
A graphene oxide reinforced polymeric ionic liquids monolith was obtained by copolymerization of graphene oxide doped 1-(3-aminopropyl)-3-(4-vinylbenzyl)imidazolium 4-styrenesulfonate monomer and 1,6-di-(3-vinylimidazolium) hexane bihexafluorophosphate cross-linking agent. Coupled to high-performance liquid chromatography, the monolith was used as a solid-phase microextraction sorbent to analyze several phenolic compounds in aqueous samples. Under the optimized extraction and desorption conditions, linear ranges were 5-400 μg/L for 3-nitrophenol, 2-nitrophenol, and 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2-400 μg/L for 4-chlorophenol, 2-methylphenol, and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (R(2) = 0.9973-0.9988). The limits of detection were 0.5 μg/L for 3-nitrophenol and 2-nitrophenol and 0.2 μg/L for the rest of the analytes. The proposed method was used to determine target analytes in groundwater from an industrial park and river water. None of the analytes was detected. Relative recoveries were in the range of 75.5-113%.
BACKGROUND ::: Stark racial disparities in disease incidence among American women remain a persistent public health challenge. These disparities likely result from complex interactions between genetic, social, lifestyle, and environmental risk factors. The influence of environmental risk factors, such as chemical exposure, however, may be substantial and is poorly understood. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: We quantitatively evaluated chemical-exposure disparities by race/ethnicity, life stage, and time in United States (US) women (n = 38,080) by using biomarker data for 143 chemicals from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1999-2014. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We applied a series of survey-weighted, generalized linear models using data from the entire NHANES women population along with cycle and age-group stratified subpopulations. The outcome was chemical biomarker concentration, and the main predictor was race/ethnicity with adjustment for age, socioeconomic status, smoking habits, and NHANES cycle. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Compared to non-Hispanic White women, the highest disparities were observed for non-Hispanic Black, Mexican American, Other Hispanic, and Other Race/Multi-Racial women with higher levels of pesticides and their metabolites, including 2,5-dichlorophenol, o,p'-DDE, beta-hexachlorocyclohexane, and 2,4-dichlorophenol, along with personal care and consumer product compounds, including parabens and monoethyl phthalate, as well as several metals, such as mercury and arsenic. Moreover, for Mexican American, Other Hispanic, and non-Hispanic black women, there were several exposure disparities that persisted across age groups, such as higher 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol concentrations. Exposure levels for methyl and propyl parabens, however, were the highest in non-Hispanic black compared to non-Hispanic white children with average differences exceeding 4-fold. Exposure disparities for methyl and propyl parabens are increasing over time in Other Race/Multi-Racial women while fluctuating for non-Hispanic Black, Mexican American, and Other Hispanic. Cotinine levels are among the highest in Non-Hispanic White women compared to Mexican American and Other Hispanic women with disparities plateauing and increasing, respectively. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION ::: We systematically evaluated differences in chemical exposures across women of various race/ethnic groups and across age groups and time. Our findings could help inform chemical prioritization in designing epidemiological and toxicological studies. In addition, they could help guide public health interventions to reduce environmental and health disparities across populations.
Para-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB) products are widely used in the home and public buildings, leading to exposure to this chemical in indoor environments. In this study, we explored potential relationships between p-DCB exposure and diabetes in US adults by analyzing a nationally representative subsample of 3063 adult participants aged 20-79 years randomly selected for measurement of urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), the major metabolite of p-DCB, in the 2007-2010 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Median urinary 2,5-DCP concentration was 7.0 μg/l (interquartile range: 2.1-29.9). Of the participants, 560 (13.6%) were diabetic. A dose-dependent increase in the prevalence of diabetes was observed in the study participants across quartiles of urinary 2,5-DCP (P-trend<0.0001). After adjusting for potential confounders, individuals in the highest quartile of urinary 2,5-DCP had an increased odds of diabetes (OR=1.59 (95% CI: 1.06, 2.40)) compared with individuals with the lowest quartile. The highest quartile of urinary 2,5-DCP was also positively associated with insulin resistance (adjusted β=0.75; 95% CI: 0.27, 1.24). This study demonstrated a potential association between exposure to p-DCB, measured as urinary concentrations of 2,5-DCP, and diabetes in US adults. Additional epidemiologic and mechanistic studies would further explore these interactions.
This invention discloses a process for the preparation of 2,5-dichloro-4-bromophenol which comprises reacting a mixture of 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol with about 0.9 to about 1.2 molar amounts of bromine per mole of 2,5-dichlorophenol and thereafter recovering the 2,5-dichloro-4-bromophenol.
ABSTRACT Regression analysis was used to estimate and test for relationships between urinary pesticide metabolites and neurobehavioral test performance in adults, 20 to 59 years old, participating in the third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. The 12 pesticide metabolites included 2 naphthols, 8 phenols, a phenoxyacetic acid, and a pyridinol. The 3 neurobehavioral tests included in the survey were simple reaction time, symbol-digit substitution, and serial digit learning. As the 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and the pentachlorophenol concentrations increased, performance on the serial digit learning test improved. As the 2,5-dichlorophenol concentration increased, performance on the symbol-digit substitution test improved. At low concentrations, the parent compounds of these metabolites may act at acetylcholine and γ-aminobutyric acid synapses in the central nervous system to improve neurobehavioral test performance.
Humans are exposed to the environmental pollutants 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) through air, the use of water and the consumption of products. In this study, we evaluated the urinary concentrations of these compounds in Korean people between the ages of 18 to 69 years, by making use of data from the Korean National Human Biomonitoring Survey that was completed in 2009. Of 1865 representative Koreans, 63.4% and 97.9% were found to have concentrations of 2,4-DCP and 2,5-DCP > 0.05 μg/L (limit of detection) in their urine, respectively. The geometric mean of urinary concentrations was 0.14 μg/L (confidence interval of 95% = 0.13–0.16) and 0.44 μg/L (confidence interval = 0.41–0.48), respectively. It was found that the adjusted proportional changes in 2,4-DCP concentrations were significantly associated with body mass index, whereas those of 2,5-DCP concentrations were influenced by place of residence. From these findings, it is evident that most adults in Korea have levels of 2,4-DCP and 2,5-DCP that are detectable in their urine and the burden of these compounds on their bodies varies depending on numerous demographic factors.
The relationship between exposure to p-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB) and urinary excretion of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), the major metabolite of p-DCB, was examined to evaluate the usefulness of the metabolite as a biological index for low-level exposure of p-DCB in the general population. Personal exposure concentrations of p-DCB and concentrations of 2,5-DCP excreted in the urine of 119 adults living in Osaka were determined. Airborne p-DCB was collected for 24 h by passive gas sampling tubes packed with charcoal. The tubes were exchanged every 12 h. The sampling was started immediately after the subject woke up in the morning (7 A.M.). The collected p-DCB was desorbed with toluene and measured using a gas chromatograph with an electron capture detector (GC-ECD). On the other hand, the first morning urine samples were collected at the endpoint of airborne p-DCB sampling (7 A.M. the next morning). The urine samples were hydrolyzed with concentrated sulfuric acid. 2,5-DCP in the hydrolysates was extracted with n-hexane and measured by GC-ECD.Both p-DCB and 2,5-DCP were detected in more than 99% of the air and urine samples, respectively, from the participants. The median of p-DCB exposure concentrations for 24 h was 2.5 ppb, with a maximum concentration of 33.3 ppb. The median of urinary 2,5-DCP concentrations was 0.39 mg/g creatinine, with the maximum concentration of 3.32 mg/g creatinine. The regression line between the urinary 2,5-DCP concentration (y) and the p-DCB exposure concentration (x) was y = 0.080x + 0.181, with the Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.81 (p < 0.001), demonstrating a strong association between these measurements. Consequently, urinary 2,5-DCP should be suitable as an index for monitoring low-level exposure of p-DCB in the general population.
Abstract: Humans are exposed to the environmental pollutants 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) through air, the use of water and the consumption of products. In this study, we evaluated the urinary concentrations of these compounds in Korean people between the ages of 18 to 69 years, by making use of data from the Korean National Human Biomonitoring Survey that was completed in 2009. Of 1865 representative Koreans, 63.4% and 97.9% were found to have concentrations of 2,4-DCP and 2,5-DCP > 0.05 µg/L (limit of detection) in their urine, respectively. The geometric mean of urinary concentrations was 0.14 µg/L (confidence interval of 95% = 0.13-0.16) and 0.44 µg/L (confidence interval = 0.41-0.48), respectively. It was found that the adjusted proportional changes in 2,4-DCP concentrations were significantly associated with body mass index, whereas those of 2,5-DCP concentrations were influenced by place of residence. From these findings, it is evident that most adults in Korea have levels of 2,4-DCP and 2,5-DCP that are detectable in their urine and the burden of these compounds on their bodies varies depending on numerous demographic factors.
The presence of toxic chemicals in consumer products, water, and air pose a wide range of health risks to the general population. Therefore, biomonitoring studies of potentially toxic substances are crucial for establishing the level of exposure a population has to these substances, identifying groups that are at high risk, describing differences in geography, and evaluating the health risks that a population faces [1] . It is for these purposes that many countries, including the U.S. and Germany, have carried out national biomonitoring studies, including analyses of organochlorine compounds. 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) are the most common organochlorine compounds to be easily found in soils and waste streams [2, 3] .
The invention belongs to a production technology of a dicamba intermediate, and relates to a method for preparing 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxy benzoic acid by reacting 2,5-dichlorophenols salt with carbon dioxide in an organic solvent,the technology for increasing Kolbe-Schmitt carboxylation reaction yield by a secondary salt forming comprises the following steps: (1) preparing the raw material phenates and dehydrating; (2) performing a primary carboxylation reaction to the raw material phenates; (3) performing a salt forming and dehydration to by-product dichlorophenols; (4) carrying out a carboxylation reaction; (5) refining. Experiments show that the yield of 6-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid can reach 68.4%-70.5% after the secondary carboxylation, The method for increasing yield of 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid is capable of solving the unfavorable influence of dichlorophenols generated by the reaction, raising the reaction yield, minimizing the reaction time and saving the production cost.
Environmental phenols and parabens are commonly used in personal care products and other consumer products and human exposure to these chemicals is widespread. Although human and animal studies suggest an association between exposure to phenols and parabens and thyroid hormone levels, few studies have investigated the association of in utero exposure to these chemicals and thyroid hormones in pregnant women and their neonates. We measured four environmental phenols (triclosan, benzophenone-3, and 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol), and three parabens (methyl-, propyl-, and butyl paraben) in urine collected from mothers at two time points during pregnancy as part of the CHAMACOS (Center for the Health Assessment of Mothers and Children of Salinas) study. We measured free thyroxine (T4), total T4, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in serum of the pregnant women (N = 454) and TSH in their neonates (N = 365). We examined potential confounding by a large number of additional chemical exposures and used Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) to select the most influential chemicals to include in regression models. We observed negative associations of prenatal urinary concentrations of propyl paraben and maternal TSH (β for two-fold increase = -3.26%, 95% CI: -5.55, -0.90) and negative associations of 2,4-dichlorophenol and maternal free T4 (β for two-fold increase = -0.05, 95% CI: -0.08, -0.02), after controlling for other chemical exposures. We observed negative associations of triclosan with maternal total T4 after controlling for demographic variables, but this association became non-significant after controlling for other chemicals (β for two-fold increase = -0.05, 95% CI: -0.11, 0.00). We found evidence that environmental phenols and parabens are associated with lower TSH and free T4 in pregnant women after controlling for related chemical exposures.
Environmental phenols and parabens are commonly used in personal care products and other consumer products and human exposure to these chemicals is widespread. Although human and animal studies suggest an association between exposure to phenols and parabens and thyroid hormone levels, few studies have investigated the association of in utero exposure to these chemicals and thyroid hormones in pregnant women and their neonates. We measured four environmental phenols (triclosan, benzophenone-3, and 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol), and three parabens (methyl-, propyl-, and butyl paraben) in urine collected from mothers at two time points during pregnancy as part of the CHAMACOS (Center for the Health Assessment of Mothers and Children of Salinas) study. We measured free thyroxine (T4), total T4, and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) in serum of the pregnant women (N = 454) and TSH in their neonates (N = 365). We examined potential confounding by a large number of additional chemical exposures and used Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) to select the most influential chemicals to include in regression models. We observed negative associations of prenatal urinary concentrations of propyl paraben and maternal TSH (β for two-fold increase = −3.26%, 95% CI: −5.55, −0.90) and negative associations of 2,4-dichlorophenol and maternal free T4 (β for two-fold increase = −0.05, 95% CI: −0.08, −0.02), after controlling for other chemical exposures. We observed negative associations of triclosan with maternal total T4 after controlling for demographic variables, but this association became nonsignificant after controlling for other chemicals (β for two-fold increase = −0.05, 95% CI: −0.11, 0.00). We found evidence that environmental phenols and parabens are associated with lower TSH and free T4 in pregnant women after controlling for related chemical exposures.
Environmental phenols and parabens, chemicals commonly used in personal care products and other consumer items, have shown endocrine disrupting properties and may impact thyroid hormone regulation and homeostasis (Boberg et al., 2010; Witorsch and Thomas, 2010) . Thyroid hormone balance is essential during pregnancy for fetal neurodevelopment (Ghassabian et al., 2014; Haddow et al., 1999; Julvez et al., 2013) . Low levels of thyroxine (T4), especially in early pregnancy, can lead to neurological disabilities and underdevelopment of the cortex (De Escobar et al., 2004) . Thyroid hormones work in a feedback loop, with low blood levels of triiodothyronine (T3) and T4 leading to increased release of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) (Dietrich et al., 2012) . Particular attention has been paid to the potential thyroid-hormone disrupting properties of triclosan, a chemical used as an antibacterial agent in certain toothpastes, personal care products, and antimicrobial fabrics (Dann and Hontela, 2011) . Triclosan was also widely used in antibacterial hand soaps until it was banned by the FDA in 2016 (United States Food and Drug Administration, 2013) . Triclosan is structurally similar to T3 and T4 and has been shown to decrease T4 in rodent studies (Crofton et al., 2007; Paul et al., 2012 Paul et al., , 2010 Rodriguez and Sanchez, 2010; Zorrilla et al., 2009) , although studies in humans have been less consistent (Aker et al., 2018 (Aker et al., , 2016 Allmyr et al., 2009; Braun et al., 2017; Cullinan et al., 2012; Geens et al., 2015; Koeppe et al., 2013; Ley et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2017) Benzophenone-3, a chemical that absorbs ultraviolet rays A and B, is used in sunscreens and other products for skin protection, and in cosmetics such as lipsticks, hairsprays, shampoos and skin lotions to prolong the products' durability (Han et al., 2016) . Among 106 pregnant Puerto Rican women, urinary benzophenone-3 concentrations were associated with decreased free T3, but no associations were seen with free T4 and TSH (Aker et al., 2016) . However, maternal urinary benzophenone-3 was not associated with maternal serum free or total T3 or T4 in 183 pregnant women in Denmark. (Krause et al., 2018) Other environmental phenols include 2,4-dichlorophenol, a photodegradation product of triclosan that is also an intermediate in the manufacturing of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (Latch et al., 2005) , and 2,5-dichlorophenol, a metabolite of p-dichlorobenzene which is used in moth balls and room and toilet deodorizers (Wei et al., 2014; Ye et al., 2014) . A cross-sectional study of 1889 Flemish adolescents found that 2,5-dichlorophenol was positively associated with TSH and negatively associated with free T4 (Croes et al., 2015) . In a study of 618 adolescents in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol, but not 2,4-dichlorophenol, were associated with increased levels of TSH and thyroglobulin and unchanged levels of free T4 and free T3 (Wei and Zhu, 2016) .
In this paper,the macroporous polymeric resin NDA-77 was employed to treat 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid production wastewater and showed good properties of adsorption and desorption.After adsorption process,2,5-dichlorophenol and 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid,the two main organic pollutants in the wastewater,were removed completely.The concentration of TOC is about 210 mg/L in the wastewater,but less than 20mg/L in the treated effluent.Those effluent still achieving remaining about 20% KCl electrolyte and is recommended to apply to diaphragm electrolysis.Meanwhile,dilute sodium hydroxide could be used as a solvent for complete regeneration of the spent adsorbent.
1,4-Dichlorobenzene (DCB), widely used as a moth repellent and a space deodorant, is one kind of chlorobenzene that is classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer among chemicals possibly carcinogenic to humans on the basis of a sufficient evidence for carcinogenicity to rodents. DCB has been found to cause renal tubular-cell adenocarcinomas in rats and hepatocellular carcinomas in mice but without their clastogenic and genotoxic effects. In this study, we investigated the health risk of DCB workers from three steps. Firstly, we investigated the cytotoxicity of 1,4- dichlorobenzene and its metabolite 2,5-dichlorophenol in human lymphoma Jurkat cells, human colon adenocarcinoma cells and human hepatocellular carcinoma cells. The LD50 of DCB were 1.34 mM, 5 mM and 2 mM in Human lymphoma Jurkat cells, human colon adenocarcinoma cells and human hepatocellular carcinoma cells respectively. DCB was found to cause apoptosis itself and reduced the staurosporine-induced apoptosis in all three cells. Secondly, works in four factories were investigated to examine their blood cells. Two items, their apoptosis rate and their anti-apoptosis rate, were investigated on the work's blood. In an investigation on Dec, 2004, we found a significant higher apoptosis rate of exposure workers comparing with nonexposure workers. The blood cells of workers were significantly resistant to the staurosporine-induced apoptosis. In the other three investigations in 2005, we found similar phenomenon that the blood cells of exposure workers had higher apoptosis rate and higher resistant rate to staurosporine-induced apoptosis. Thirdly, the DCB content in the urine and blood of workers were analyzed. Based on the low to high level of DCB content, the workers were grouped into 10 degrees. The correlation of the level of DCB and apoptosis rate and anti apoptosis rate was analyzed by Pearson Correlation Program. The apoptosis rate and anti-apoptosis rate of worker's blood were both significant negatively correlated with the DCB content in their urine and air. Based on this computer program analysis, we suggest that the exposure of DCB induced significant changes of the blood cell of exposure workers and need to be concerned.
Anaeromyxobacter dehalogenans strain 2CP-C dehalogenatesortho-substituted di- and mono-halogenated phenols and couples this activity to growth. Reductive dehalogenation activity has been reported to be inducible, however,this process has not been studied extensively. In this study, theinduction of reductive dehalogenation activity by strain 2CP-C is characterized. Constitutive 2-chlorophenoldechlorination activity occurs in non-induced fumarate-grown cells, with rates averaging 0.138 μmol of Cl- h-1 mg of protein-1. Once induced, these cultures dechlorinate 2-chlorophenol (2-CP) at rates as high as 116 μmol of Cl-1 h-1 mg of protein-1. Dechlorination of 2-CP is induced by phenol,2-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol,and 2-bromophenol. Of the substrates tested, 2-bromophenol shows the highestinduction potential, yielding double the 2-chlorophenol dechlorination rate when compared to other inducing substrates. No induced dechlorination is observed at concentrations less than5 μM 2-CP. When fumarate cultures were diluted 100-fold, fumarate reduction rates were reduced roughly according to the dilution factor, while dechlorination rates were similar in fumarate grown cells amended with 2-CP and cells diluted 100-fold prior to the addition of chlorophenol. This indicates that the majority of the fumarate-grown cells in late log phase were not induced when exposed to inducing substrates such as 2-CP. This observation may have ramifications on the success of bioaugmentation using halorespiring bacteria, which traditionally relies on growing culturesusing more readily utilized substrates. The rapid dechlorination rate and unique induction pattern also make strain 2CP-C a promising model organism for understanding the regulationof reductive dehalogenation at the enzymatic level.
The growth of a gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH)-degrading bacterium Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 in rich medium was inhibited by gamma-HCH. This growth inhibition was not observed in a mutant that lacked the initial or second step enzymatic activity for gamma-HCH degradation, suggesting that metabolites of gamma-HCH are toxic to UT26. Two metabolites of gamma-HCH, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ), showed a direct toxic effect on UT26 and other sphingomonad strains. Because only 2,5-DCP accumulated during gamma-HCH degradation, 2,5-DCP is thought to be a main compound for growth inhibition.
Abstract Early life exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals may alter adipogenesis and energy balance leading to changes in obesity risk. Several studies have evaluated the association of prenatal bisphenol A exposure with childhood body size but only one study of male infants has examined other environmental phenols. Therefore, we assessed associations between prenatal exposure to environmental phenols and fat mass in a prospective birth cohort. We quantified four phenol biomarkers in third trimester maternal spot urine samples in a cohort of women enrolled in New York City between 1998 and 2002 and evaluated fat mass in their children using a Tanita scale between ages 4 and 9 years (173 children with 351 total observations). We estimated associations of standard deviation differences in natural log creatinine-standardized phenol biomarker concentrations with percent fat mass using linear mixed effects regression models. We did not observe associations of bisphenol A or triclosan with childhood percent fat mass. In unadjusted models, maternal urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol were associated with greater percent fat mass and benzophenone-3 was associated with lower percent fat mass among children. After adjustment, phenol biomarkers were not associated with percent fat mass. However, the association between benzophenone-3 and percent fat mass was modified by child's sex: benzophenone-3 concentrations were inversely associated with percent fat mass in girls (beta = − 1.51, 95% CI = − 3.06, 0.01) but not boys (beta = − 0.20, 95% CI = − 1.69, 1.26). Although we did not observe strong evidence that prenatal environmental phenols exposures influence the development of childhood adiposity, the potential antiadipogenic effect of benzophenone-3 in girls may warrant further investigation.
A preparation method of a benzoic acid herbicide dicamba relates to the technical filed of pesticide production. The invention employs 2,5-dichlorophenols as a raw material and carries out esterification, Fries rearrangement, etherification and oxidation to obtain 3,6-dichloro-2-methoxybenzoic acid. The synthetic method has simple technology, easily available raw material, low cost, generates little "three wastes (waste gas, waste water and industrial residue)" and is more environment-friendly and more suitable for industrialized production.
ABSTRACT A laboratory study was conducted to evaluate the abiotic losses of organics in soil. 2,3- and 2,5-dichlorophenol were added to microcosms containing soil treated either by autoclaving or gamma irradiation or incubated under anoxic conditions. Biologically active aerobic microcosms were used as controls. Losses of the compounds were monitored using gas chromatography. Significant losses were observed in both the autoclaved and irradiated soils. Loss rates in the autoclaved soils were lowest; losses were greatest in the biologically active soils. Anoxic conditions slowed but did not stop the losses. Autoclaving and radiation appeared to increase the sorptive capacity of the soil. The study stresses the difficulty of achieving "sterile" conditions in soils, even when sound sterilization methods are used by competent analysts. Studies that report information about "sterile" conditions and abiotic losses of chemicals in soils should check for, and not presume, sterility in any tests that are conducted.
We performed a cross-sectional analysis to identify correlates of urinary concentrations of seven phenols (bisphenols A, F, and S; 2,4-dichlorophenol; 2,5-dichlorophenol; benzophenone-3; triclosan), triclocarban, and four parabens (butyl, ethyl, methyl, and propyl). We analyzed baseline data from 766 participants in the Study of Environment, Lifestyle, and Fibroids, a prospective cohort study of 1693 Black women aged 23–34 years residing in Detroit, Michigan (2010–2012). We collected data on demographic, behavioral, and anthropometric factors via telephone interviews, clinic visits, and self-administered questionnaires. For each biomarker, we used linear regression models to estimate mean differences in log-transformed, creatinine-corrected concentrations across factors of interest. Each biomarker was detected in >50% of participants. Median creatinine-corrected concentrations were the highest for methyl paraben (116.8 μg/g creatinine), propyl paraben (16.8 μg/g creatinine), and benzophenone-3 (13.4 μg/g creatinine). Variables most strongly associated with biomarker concentrations included season of urine collection, education, and body mass index (BMI). BMI was positively associated with bisphenol A and S and triclocarban concentrations and inversely associated with butyl and methyl paraben concentrations. In this cohort of Black women, exposure to phenols, parabens, and triclocarban was prevalent and several factors were associated with biomarker concentrations.
In this study, a simple, novel, and efficient preconcentration method has been developed for the determination of some chlorophenols (4-chlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,3-dichlorophenol, and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol) using a direct solid phase microextraction (D-SPME) based on chitosan-ZnO nanorod composite combined with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). A one step-novel hydrothermal method was demonstrated on the fabrication of ZnO nanorods arrayed on the fused silica fiber in the chitosan hydrogel solution (CZNC) as a new coating of SPME fiber. The coating was characterized by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) instruments. The CZNC coating has combined the merits of both ZnO nanorods and chitosan hydrogel; it has several improvements such as increased extraction efficiency of chlorophenols and longer life time (over 80 cycles of D-SPME-HPLC operation). Experimental design method was used for optimization of extraction conditions and determination of four chlorophenols in water samples by SPME-HPLC-UV method. The calibration curves were linear from 5 to 1000 µg L(-1) for analytes, and the limits of detection were between 0.1 and 2 µg L(-1). Single fiber repeatability and fiber-to-fiber reproducibility were in the range of 5.8-10.2% and 8.8-14.5%, respectively. The spiked recoveries at 50 µg L(-1) for environmental water sample were in the range of 93-102%.
Author(s): Berger, Kimberly | Advisor(s): Harley, Kim; Eskenazi, Brenda | Abstract: Recent studies suggest that phthalates, parabens, and other phenols found in personal care products and plastics may be related to immunologic diseases. This dissertation focuses on in utero exposure to these chemicals and the development of asthma, aeroallergies, and eczema in childhood, as well as lung function and relative concentrations of immune system biomarkers in childhood. We explored measurements of immune system functioning and atopic disease in children in the Center for the Health Assessment of Mothers and Children in Salinas (CHAMACOS) study, a prospective cohort of pregnant women and their children, from age six months to seven years and describes data collection and data consistency across ages. We determined classifications of cases of probable asthma, aeroallergies, and eczema at age seven in this population and found that, at age seven, 36 children out of 353 with relevant data (10%) had probable asthma, 87 children of 339 with relevant data (26%) had aeroallergies, and 23 children of 338 with relevant data (7%) had eczema. Lung function measurements were similar to national averages, and cytokine measurements changed with age in expected patterns.We analyzed associations of prenatal urinary concentrations of high molecular weight phthalates and bisphenol A, commonly found in some plastics, with probable asthma, aeroallergies, eczema, and spirometry at age seven, and with blood cytokine measurements at ages two, five, and seven. Logistic and linear regressions were conducted for 392 children, and Bayesian Model Averaging (BMA) was used to identify a select number of additional personal care product and plasticizing chemicals to be controlled for in the models, in order to account for confounding by joint chemical exposure to all phthalates, parabens, and phenols studied in this dissertation. We found that concentrations of monocarboxyisooctyl phthalate (MCOP) were associated with increased odds of having probable asthma (OR: 1.54, 95% CI: 1.12, 2.12) and poorer lung function (RR for forced expiratory volume in one second [FEV1]: -0.09, 95% CI: -0.15, -0.03; RR for forced expiratory flow from 25–75% of FVC [FEF25-75%]: -6.98, 95% CI: -10.95, -2.84). MCOP (OR: 1.28, 95% CI: 1.02, 1.62), MCPP (OR: 1.36, 95% CI: 1.07, 1.73), and BPA (OR: 1.35, 95% CI: 1.06, 1.73) were associated with aeroallergies, in crude models and models adjusting for demographic factors, but not in models adjusting further for additional chemical concentrations.We also examined associations between prenatal urinary concentrations of low molecular weight phthalates, parabens, triclosan, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and benzophenone-3, all commonly found in personal care products, and the outcomes described above. Similar methods were used, including selection of additional chemical covariates using BMA. We found that concentrations of propyl paraben (OR: 0.84, 95% CI: 0.73, 0.97) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (OR: 0.63, 95% CI: 0.47, 0.86) were associated with decreased odds of having probable asthma. We also found that concentrations of monoethyl phthalate (MEP) were associated with lower spirometry measurements (RR for FEV1: -0.03, 95% CI: -0.07, 0.00; RR for FEF25-75%: -3.23, 95% CI: -5.87, -0.52), but that concentrations of mono-n-butyl phthalate (MBP) were associated with higher spirometry measurements (RR for FEV1: 0.06, 95% CI: 0.01, 0.11; RR for FEF25-75%: 4.29, 95% CI: 0.04, 8.71). We also found that MBP concentrations were longitudinally associated with higher T helper cell 2 percentage (Th2%) across ages two, five, and seven (RR: 8.40, 95% CI: 1.95, 15.26) and that mono-isobutyl phthalate (MiBP) concentrations were longitudinally associated with lower T helper 1:T helper 2 cell ratio (RR: -6.19, 95% CI: -11.70, -0.32).We explored novel methods to analyze joint exposure to the chemicals studied in this dissertation, as people are typically exposed to mixtures of chemicals, rather than to a single chemical. We chose to analyze probable asthma and allergies, but not eczema, with these methods because eczema showed no associations in our regression analyses above. We also included only FEV1 out of the four spirometry measures, though results for other spirometry measures were similar. We chose not to include cytokine measurements because associations in the above analyses were not consistent and would likely not yield results useful for the demonstration of these new methods. Bayesian Profile Regression was used to cluster children into groups based on their patterns of joint prenatal exposure to phthalates, parabens, and other phenols. Clusters were then evaluated for their relationship to probable asthma, aeroallergies, and FEV1. We found that participants clustered into seven exposure groups, characterized by high and low levels of chemicals consistent with expected patterns of product use. However, these clusters were not related to the three immune outcomes. Bayesian Kernel Machine Regression (BKMR) was used to determine associations of each chemical, in the context of joint exposure to the other chemicals, with probable asthma, aeroallergies, and FEV1. We found that BKMR associations were similar to those found via logistic and linear regressions, and that strong associations of some chemicals had additive effects on associations of other chemicals.We found evidence that in utero urinary concentrations of high molecular weight phthalates appear to be associated with asthma and adverse respiratory function in childhood, and possibly with aeroallergies in childhood. In utero urinary concentrations of low molecular weight phthalates appear to be associated with altered cytokine levels in early childhood, and concentrations of parabens and other phenols show limited or no association with respiratory or immune function in childhood.
We performed a cross-sectional analysis to identify correlates of urinary concentrations of seven phenols (bisphenols A, F, and S; 2,4-dichlorophenol; 2,5-dichlorophenol; benzophenone-3; triclosan), triclocarban, and four parabens (butyl, ethyl, methyl, and propyl). We analyzed baseline data from 766 participants in the Study of Environment, Lifestyle, and Fibroids, a prospective cohort study of 1693 Black women aged 23-34 years residing in Detroit, Michigan (2010. We collected data on demographic, behavioral, and anthropometric factors via telephone interviews, clinic visits, and self-administered questionnaires. For each biomarker, we used linear regression models to estimate mean differences in log-transformed, creatinine-corrected concentrations across factors of interest. Each biomarker was detected in >50% of participants. Median creatinine-corrected concentrations were the highest for methyl paraben (116.8 μg/g creatinine), propyl paraben (16.8 μg/g creatinine), and benzophenone-3 (13.4 μg/g creatinine). Variables most strongly associated with biomarker concentrations included season of urine collection, education, and body mass index (BMI). BMI was positively associated with bisphenol A and S and triclocarban concentrations and inversely associated with butyl and methyl paraben concentrations. In this cohort of Black women, exposure to phenols, parabens, and triclocarban was prevalent and several factors were associated with biomarker concentrations.
2,4-and 2,5-Dichlorophenol are by-products of waste water treatment, waste incineration, and wood pulp bleaching and metabolites of some organochlorine pesticides. Non-occupational exposure of 2,4-dichlorophenol occurs primarily through inhalation of contaminated air and ingestion of contaminated food or water, while exposure to 2,5-dichlorophenol occurs via ingestion or dermal contact with chlorinated water. 2,4-Dichlorophenol can also be produced as a by-product of triclosan and 2,5-dichlorophenol is a metabolite of 1,4-dichlorobenzene [48, 49] . As their precursors have short half-lives, 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol have estimated half-lives of 30 min to 3 days [18, 50, 51] . In a combined analysis of NHANES 2005-2006 and 2007-2008 data, urinary concentrations of 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol were higher among women than among men and among non-Hispanic Blacks than among non-Hispanic Whites [20] .
1. The metabolism of 1,4-dichlorobenzene has been studied in the male and female Fisher 344 rat over 72 h after oral administration of 14C-1,4-dichlorobenzene (900 mg = 96.8 microCi/kg). No covalent binding of radioactivity could be detected in samples of liver, kidney, lung and spleen. The major route of excretion was with urine accounting for 41.3% of the dose for male and 37.8% of the dose for female rat within 72 h after dosing. 2. Urinary metabolites of 1,4-dichlorobenzene were identified and quantified. The major metabolites identified in the urine of both the male and female rat, were the sulphate and glucuronide of 2,5-dichlorophenol. Minor amounts of 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone were excreted as an unidentified conjugate. 3. 2-(N-acetyl-cysteine-S-yl)-1,4-dichlorobenzene and 2-(N-acetyl-cysteine-S-yl)-2,3-dihydro-3-hydroxy-1,3-hydroxy-1,4-dich lorobenzen e were minor metabolites excreted in the urine of both sexes. 4. A novel biotransformation pathway for 1,4-dichlorobenzene may be postulated, leading to the urinary excretion of a mercapturic acid of chlorophenol. 5. No marked differences in the distribution and excretion of metabolites of 1,4-dichlorobenzene were observed between the male and female Fisher 344 rat.
One of the most usual methods used to deoxygenate water and prevent the corrosion of industrial boilers is based on the reduction of dioxygen in aqueous alkaline solution with an hydroxylamine in the presence of catalytic amounts of hydroquinone (H2Q). In order to improve the effectiveness and the “greenness” of this process, the influence of the nature of the hydroxylamine and of the catalyst has been investigated. With H2Q as a catalyst, the efficiency of various hydroxylamines was found to be in the following order: methylhydroxylamine > dimethylhydroxylamine > hydroxylamine > tert-butylhydroxylamine > diethylhydroxylamine (DEHA). To replace the potentially carcinogenic hydroquinone, a natural polyphenol, i.e. gallic acid, which was previously shown to be safer and more robust that H2Q to trap O2 in the presence of DEHA, was used. Methylhydroxylamine was still by far the most active partner, but DEHA was almost as efficient as the other hydroxylamines, free hydroxylamine being the least active oxygen scavenger. As only a catalytic amount of dioxygen scavenger is required in the presence of appropriate hydroxylamines, compounds having a bit more acute toxicity but higher reactivity than hydroquinone may also be alternative catalytic systems. Hence, five aminophenols, i.e. 4-aminophenol, 4-amino-2,5-dichlorophenol, 5-amino-salicylic acid, 4-N-methylaminophenol and 4-N,N-dimethylaminophenol, were also investigated. Among them, 4-N-methylaminophenol was found to be the most efficient although much slower than H2Q.
Within the Flemish Environment and Health stud- ies (FLEHS I, 2002-2006, and FLEHS II, 2007-2012), pes- ticide exposure, hormone levels and degree of sexual matura- tion were measured in 14-15-year-old adolescents residing in Flanders (Belgium). In FLEHS II, geometric mean concentra- tions (with 95 % confidence interval (CI)) of 307 (277-341) and 36.5 ng L �1 (34.0-39.2) were found for p,p'- dichlorophenyldichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB). These values were respectively 26 and 60 % lower than levels in FLEHS I, 5 years earlier. Metabolites of organophosphorus pesticides (OPPs) and of para-dichlorobenzene were measured for the first time in FLEHS II, yielding concentrations of 11.4, 3.27 and 1.57 μ gL �1 for the sum of dimethyl- and diethyl phosphate metabolites and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), respectively. Data on internal exposure of HCB showed a positive correla- tion with sexual maturation, testosterone and the aromatase index for boys and with free thyroxine (fT4) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) (both boys and girls). For both p,p'-DDE and HCB, a negative association with sexual devel- opment in girls was found. The OPP metabolites were nega- tively associated with sex hormone levels in the blood of boys and with sexual maturation (both boys and girls). The pesti- cide metabolite 2,5-DCP was negatively correlated with free T4, while a positive association with TSH was reported (boys and girls). These results show that even exposure to relatively low concentrations of pesticides can have significant influ- ences on hormone levels and the degree of sexual maturation in 14-15-year-old adolescents.
Abstract Background Chlorinated phenols are associated with atopic conditions, but it is not known whether they are associated with wheeze or asthma and whether atopy is involved in these associations. Objectives To test the association between urine levels of 2 dichlorophenols (2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenols) and asthma morbidity in atopic and nonatopic wheezers and between total serum immunoglobulin E (IgE) levels. Methods Data from a sample of 2,125 participants at least 6 years old from the US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005 to 2006 were analyzed. Asthma morbidity data were available for those participants who reported wheezing in the past year (“wheezers”; n = 250). This subsample was categorized as atopic or nonatopic. Results Atopic wheezers with higher 2,5-dichlorophenol levels were more frequently diagnosed with asthma by a physician (odds ratio [OR] 4.7 for highest vs lowest tertile, P P = .046), and reported more exercise-induced wheezing (OR 5.8, P = .045) than atopic wheezers with low dichlorophenol levels. Atopic wheezers with higher 2,5- or 2,4-dichloropheonol levels also were more likely to miss work or school because of wheezing (OR 10.0, P P Conclusion These findings indicate that in patients with atopy and a history of wheezing, asthma morbidity is associated with high urinary dichlorophenol levels. Increased urine dichlorophenol levels are associated with higher total serum IgE.
A new synthesis technology for synthesizing aromatic hydroxycarboxylic acids by carboxylation in solvent was introduced. The reaction mechanism, affecting factors and selection of solvent were discussed. The synthesis of 3,6-Dichlorosalicylic acid was givcn as an example. 2,5-dichlorophenol was dissolved in an organic solvent, then reacted with potassium hydrate at 95～100℃ fbr 1 hour to give a salt. The salt was carboxylated with CO_2 at 140～150℃ for 8 hours while the stirring speed was 400r/min, then mixed with water, the water layer was acidified to pH=1with 30% HCl to obtain 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid. The product yield was 75%, the purity was 98%. The effect of stirring speed, reaction temperature and pressure on the yield and quality of the product was discussed in detail.
Abstract The measurement of 2,5-dichlorophenol in urine as a metabolic product of p-dichlorobenzene was studied in relation to its usefulness in industrial exposures to p-dichlorobenzene. The chlorinated phenol was steam-distilled from, acidified urine and determined colorimetrically with 4-aminoantipyrine, and alternatively by extraction of the distillate with hydrocarbon solvents and analysis by ultraviolet absorption. Exposures in various industrial plants handling p-dichlorobenzene were correlated with urinary dichlorophenol excretion at the end of the work shift.
OBJECTIVES ::: To determine blood and urine concentrations of a number of metals and organic substances in workers at a hazardous-waste incinerator (HWI) 1 year after regular operations in the facility, and to compare these concentrations with the baseline levels. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The employees were divided into three groups according to their workplaces. Plasma analyses of hexachlorobenzene (HCB), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs 28, 52, 101, 138, 153 and 180) and polychlorinated dibenzo- p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), and urinary analyses of 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCP), 2,4,5- and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP), pentachlorophenol (PCP) and 1-hydroxypyrene (1-HP) were carried out. The blood concentrations of beryllium, manganese, mercury and lead, and the urine levels of cadmium, chromium, nickel and vanadium were also determined. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The current plasma HCB, PCB and PCDD/F levels, and the urine levels of chlorophenols (CLPs) and 1-HP did not show significant differences between workplace groups or the baseline concentrations. Moreover, no significant differences between metal levels could be observed. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION ::: The lack of differences between the current levels of metals and organic substances and the respective baseline concentrations, together with the absence of differences depending on the workplace indicate that the potential exposure of HWI workers to the analyzed compounds was insignificant. According to these results, 1 year of potential exposure to the above metals and organic substances would not mean any specific health problem for the workers at the HWI.
Similarly to unleaded gasoline, 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB) administered for 2 years caused a dose-related increase in the incidence of renal tumors in male but not in female rats or in either sex of mice. Unleaded gasoline and 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (TMP), a component of unleaded gasoline, increased protein droplet formation and cell proliferation in male but not in female rat kidneys. These protein droplets contained, alpha 2u-globulin, a male rat-specific low-molecular-weight protein and 2,4,4-trimethyl-2-pentanol, a metabolite of TMP that was reversibly bound to this protein. Studies were undertaken to determine if 1,4-DCB produced similar effects; 1,2-DCB was used for comparison since it did not produce renal carcinogenesis in male rats. Gel filtration chromatography of a 116,000g supernatant prepared from kidneys of 1,4-[14C]DCB-treated rats showed that radiolabel coeluted with alpha 2u-globulin as one sharp peak as opposed to a multipeak pattern observed for 1,2-[14C]DCB; the maximal quantity of radiolabel for 1,4-DCB was twice that for 1,2-DCB. Equilibrium dialysis of kidney cytosol in the presence or absence of sodium dodecyl sulfate demonstrated that the radiolabel was reversibly bound to alpha 2u-globulin; the amount for 1,4-[14C]DCB-treated rats was almost twice as much as that for 1,2-[14C]DCB-treated rats. 1,2-DCB was also shown to be covalently bound to renal alpha 2u-globulin, and covalently bound to liver and plasma high-molecular-weight proteins. 1,4-DCB and, to a minor extent, 2,5-dichlorophenol, the major metabolite of 1,4-DCB, were reversibly bound to renal alpha 2u-globulin from 1,4-DCB-treated rats. 1,4-DCB increased protein droplet formation in male but not in female rat kidneys, whereas equimolar doses of 1,2-DCB showed no effect in either sex. Renal cell proliferation, measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation into renal DNA, was increased after 1,4-DCB but not after 1,2-DCB treatment. Nephrotoxicity and biochemical alterations induced by 1,4-DCB resemble those of unleaded gasoline and suggest that a similar mechanism is involved in the induction of alpha 2u-globulin nephropathy in male rats.
Abstract Background Human exposure to phenols and parabens is widespread. Within-person variability of urinary concentrations in healthy women is not well characterized. Objectives To characterize the variability of urinary phenol and paraben concentrations across two months and evaluate the ability of a single spot urine sample to characterize exposure. Methods 143 women provided 509 spot urine samples collected across two months of study (3–5 samples/woman). We measured urinary concentrations of 8 phenols: bisphenol A (BPA), benzophenone-3 (BP-3), benzophenone-1 (BP-1), 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP), triclosan (TCS); and 8 parabens and their metabolites (benzyl (BzP), butyl (BuP), ethyl (EtP), heptyl (HeP), methyl (MeP), propyl (PrP), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB)). Biomarker variability was characterized using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and surrogate category analyses were conducted. Results ICCs ranged from very low for BPA (0.04) to moderate for BP-3, BP-1, TCS, BzP, and MeP (0.66, 0.58, 0.55, 0.54, and 0.62, respectively). Surrogate analyses suggested that BP-1, BP-3, TCS, 2,4-DCP, BuP, and PrP may be characterized by a single spot sample (sensitivity range 0.76–0.86) but that additional samples were necessary for BPA, HeP, 4-HB, and 3,4-DHB (sensitivity range 0.47–0.61). Conclusions Urinary phenol and paraben metabolite concentrations were variable across two months in healthy women but the degree of reliability differed by the specific biomarker. A small number of samples may sufficiently characterize typical concentrations for BP-3, BP-1, TCS, BuP, and PrP; but additional biospecimens may be necessary to characterize exposure for other compounds, including BPA.
Urine samples from 197 Arkansas children were analyzed for eight chlorinated phenols and four chlorinated phenoxy herbicides by using a new procedure that combined gas chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. With the detection limit of 1 part per billion (ppb), six of these pesticides were detected in more than 10% of the samples. 2,5-Dichlorophenol (a metabolite of p-dichlorobenzene), and pentachlorophenol were detected in 96% and 100%, respectively, of the children's urine at median concentrations of 9 ppb and 14 ppb, respectively. 2,4,5-Trichlorophenol was detected in 54% of the children's urine at a median concentration of 1 ppb. One trichlorophenol and three other dichlorophenols were found in 3% to 27% of the samples. The herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid was observed in 20% of all samples. The concentrations of all analytes are reported as background or reference levels for use in future studies. The finding of 2,5-dichlorophenol as a ubiquitous contaminant merits further study.
The tumorigenic action of environmental chemical substances has been variously examined, although the effect on malignancies after tumor occurrence has not been studied well. In this study, we established a bioassay system based on tumor cell invasion as a possible index of tumor malignancy, and evaluated the effect of various environmental chemicals on tumor cell invasiveness. We previously established a simple invasion assay system using fluorescent cells and a culture insert with fluorescence blocking micropore membrane (FBM). In this study, the effect of various environmental chemicals on the migration of green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene-transfected HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells through a Matrigel-coated filter was examined. The invasive ability of GFP-HT1080 cells was enhanced in the presence of phenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, and lindane, and was inhibited with bisphenol A, benthiocarb and others among 31 environmental chemicals tested. Enhancement of the migration of GFP-HT1080 cells with phenol and halogenated phenol derivatives depended on the number of linked chloride moieties. The morphological change of HT1080 cells in the presence of phenol and polychlorophenols was determined by confocal laser fluorescence microscopy, and we observed that it was partly correlated with the invasive characteristics. Finally, we assessed the invasion assay with combinations of chemical substances. As a result, none of the combinations increased the invasion ability of HT1080 cells. Although the effect of environmental chemicals on tumor cell invasiveness may not directly relate to the malignancy of tumor cell itself, it is possible that it relates the tumor progression and metastases.
Other commonly occurring phenols include triclosan and parabens both of which have antimicrobial properties resulting in their use in personal care products (e.g., soaps, toothpastes, deodorants) and/or as preservatives in cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and foods [1, 5] . 2,4-Dichlorophenol is predominantly found in herbicides but can also be formed as a by-product of manufacturing chlorinated chemicals [6] . 1,4-Dichlorobenzene, which metabolizes to 2,5-dichlorophenol, is used in moth balls and toilet deodorants [6] . Another phenolic compound, benzophenone-3 is used in sunscreen because of its capacity to block ultraviolet radiation [1] . Despite increasing use of substitutes for BPA and other common phenols in consumer products, these phenols are still detectable in human urine. Although typically short-lived in the body, a number of phenols, including benzophenone-3 and its metabolites, have been detected in lipid tissues supporting the possibility of bioaccumulation [7, 8] .
The tumorigenic action of environmental chemical substances has been variously examined, although the effect on malignancies after tumor occurrence has not been studied well. In this study, we established a bioassay system based on tumor cell invasion as a possible index of tumor malignancy, and evaluated the effect of various environmental chemicals on tumor cell invasiveness. We previously established a simple invasion assay system using fluorescent cells and a culture insert with fluorescence blocking micropore membrane (FBM). In this study, the effect of various environmental chemicals on the migration of green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene-transfected HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells through a Matrigel-coated filter was examined. The invasive ability of GFP-HT1080 cells was enhanced in the presence of phenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, and lindane, and was inhibited with bisphenol A, benthiocarb and others among 31 environmental chemicals tested. Enhancement of the migration of GFP-HT1080 cells with phenol and halogenated phenol derivatives depended on the number of linked chloride moieties. The morphological change of HT1080 cells in the presence of phenol and polychlorophenols was determined by confocal laser fluorescence microscopy, and we observed that it was partly correlated with the invasive characteristics. Finally, we assessed the invasion assay with combinations of chemical substances. As a result, none of the combinations increased the invasion ability of HT1080 cells. Although the effect of environmental chemicals on tumor cell invasiveness may not directly relate to the malignancy of tumor cell itself, it is possible that it relates the tumor progression and metastases.
Abstract Environmental exposures to many phenols are documented worldwide and exposures can be quite high (> 1 μM of urine metabolites). Phenols have a range of hormonal activity, but knowledge of effects on child reproductive development is limited, coming mostly from cross-sectional studies. We undertook a prospective study of pubertal development among 1239 girls recruited at three U.S. sites when they were 6–8 years old and were followed annually for 7 years to determine age at first breast or pubic hair development. Ten phenols were measured in urine collected at enrollment (benzophenone-3, enterolactone, bisphenol A, three parabens (methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-), 2,5-dichlorophenol, triclosan, genistein, daidzein). We used multivariable adjusted Cox proportional hazards ratios (HR (95% confidence intervals)) and Kaplan–Meier survival analyses to estimate relative risk of earlier or later age at puberty associated with phenol exposures. For enterolactone and benzophenone-3, girls experienced breast development 5–6 months later, adjusted HR 0.79 (0.64–0.98) and HR 0.80 (0.65–0.98) respectively for the 5th vs 1st quintiles of urinary biomarkers (μg/g-creatinine). Earlier breast development was seen for triclosan and 2,5-dichlorophenol: 4–9 months sooner for 5th vs 1st quintiles of urinary concentrations (HR 1.17 (0.96–1.43) and HR 1.37 (1.09–1.72), respectively). Association of breast development with enterolactone, but not the other three phenols, was mediated by body size. These phenols may be antiadipogens (benzophenone-3 and enterolactone) or thyroid agonists (triclosan and 2,5-dichlorophenol), and their ubiquity and relatively high levels in children would benefit from further investigation to confirm these findings and to establish whether there are certain windows of susceptibility during which exposure can affect pubertal development.
Background Stark racial disparities in disease incidence among American women remains a persistent public health challenge. These disparities likely result from complex interactions between genetic, social, lifestyle, and environmental risk factors. The influence of environmental risk factors, such as chemical exposure, however, may be substantial and is poorly understood. Objectives We quantitatively evaluated chemical-exposure disparities by race/ethnicity and age in United States (US) women by using biomarker data for 143 chemicals from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1999-2014. Methods We applied a series of survey-weighted, generalized linear models using data from the entire NHANES women population and age-group stratified subpopulations. The outcome was chemical biomarker concentration and the main predictor was race/ethnicity with adjustment for age, socioeconomic status, smoking habits, and NHANES cycle. Results The highest disparities across non-Hispanic Black, Mexican American, Other Hispanic, and other race/multiracial women were observed for pesticides and their metabolites, including 2,5-dichlorophenol, o,p’-DDE, beta-hexachlorocyclohexane, and 2,4-dichlorophenol, along with personal care and consumer product compounds. The latter included parabens, monoethyl phthalate, and several metals, such as mercury and arsenic. Moreover, for Mexican American, Other Hispanic, and non-Hispanic black women, there were several exposure disparities that persisted across age groups, such as higher 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol concentrations. Exposure differences for methyl and propyl parabens, however, were the starkest between non-Hispanic black and non-Hispanic white children with average differences exceeding 4 folds. Discussions We systematically evaluated differences in chemical exposures across women of various race/ethnic groups and across age groups. Our findings could help inform chemical prioritization in designing epidemiological and toxicological studies. In addition, they could help guide public health interventions to reduce environmental and health disparities across populations.
Abstract Background Maternal immune system regulation is critical for maintenance of a healthy pregnancy and fetal development. Exposure to phenols and parabens is widespread, and may be linked to systemic inflammation and alteration of circulating immunological biomarkers. Objective We sought to characterize associations between repeated measures of individual urinary phenols, parabens and plasma inflammatory markers across pregnancy. Methods In the LIFECODES prospective birth cohort, we conducted a nested preterm birth case-control study, including 130 cases and 352 controls. In urine samples collected from each participant at up to four study visits during pregnancy, we measured concentrations of six phenols and four parabens, as well as five plasma inflammatory markers. We used multivariable linear mixed models to analyze repeated measures of exposures on inflammatory markers. We created and applied inverse probability weights to account for the sampling approach. Results We observed bidirectional associations between select phenols and parabens and inflammatory markers. An interquartile range increase in triclosan (55.2 ng/mL) was associated with a 12.5% (95% CI: 3.67, 22.0) increase in C-reactive protein, a 7.95% (95% CI: 1.95, 14.3) increase in interleukin 10, and a 7.93% (95% CI: 3.82, 12,2) increase in tumor necrosis factor-α. Additionally, an interquartile range increase in 2,5-dichlorophenol (11.0 ng/mL) was associated with a 10% increase in C-reactive protein (95% CI: 1.92, 18.7). Conversely, an interquartile range increase in ethyl paraben (10.4 ng/mL) was associated with a 7.7% decrease in interleukin‑1β (95% CI: −14.1, −0.86). Conclusions Our findings can be organized into two thematic frameworks, one where concentrations of urinary phenols and parabens during pregnancy reflected a pro-inflammatory relationship with immunological biomarkers, and the other contrary theme – an anti-inflammatory relationship. These findings have implications for fetal development and reproductive outcomes, and emphasize the need for further research on immunological mechanisms of phenol and paraben action during pregnancy.
Human exposure to environmental phenols can be assessed by measuring the urinary concentrations of these compounds or their metabolites. Total concentrations, which include both free and conjugated (i.e., glucuronide and sulfated) species, are usually reported. Because conjugation may reduce the potential bioactivity of the compounds, measuring separately both the concentrations of free and conjugated species can be of interest. Data on the stability of these conjugated species in urine is critical if the concentrations of free and conjugated species are to be compared. Over a period of 6 months, we investigated the stability of the urinary conjugates of eight environmental phenols (bisphenol A, 2-hydroxy-4-metoxybenzophenone or benzophenone-3, triclosan, 2,5-dichlorophenol, methyl paraben, ethyl paraben, propyl paraben, and butyl paraben) at three storage conditions (room temperature, 4 degrees C, and -70 degrees C). After collection, conjugated species appeared to be stable for at least 7 days when the urine was stored at 4 degrees C, and for at least 180 days at -70 degrees C. By contrast, some of the environmental phenol conjugates commenced to degrade within 24 h after collection when the urine was stored at room temperature although the total concentrations remained relatively constant for at least 30 days. These results suggest that if the concentrations of free and conjugated species will be used for exposure assessment purposes, urine specimens collected for analysis of environmental phenols should be kept at room temperature for the shortest possible time after collection.
Results: The highest disparities across non-Hispanic Black, Mexican American, Other Hispanic, and other 39 race/multiracial women were observed for pesticides and their metabolites, including 2,5-dichlorophenol, 40 o,p'-DDE, beta-hexachlorocyclohexane, and 2,4-dichlorophenol, along with personal care and consumer 41 product compounds. The latter included parabens, monoethyl phthalate, and several metals, such as mercury 42 and arsenic. Moreover, for Mexican American, Other Hispanic, and non-Hispanic black women, there were 43 several exposure disparities that persisted across age groups, such as higher 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol 44 concentrations. Exposure differences for methyl and propyl parabens, however, were the starkest between 45 non-Hispanic black and non-Hispanic white children with average differences exceeding 4 folds. 46 Discussions: We systematically evaluated differences in chemical exposures across women of various 47 race/ethnic groups and across age groups. Our findings could help inform chemical prioritization in 48 designing epidemiological and toxicological studies. In addition, they could help guide public health 49 interventions to reduce environmental and health disparities across populations.
Human exposure to environmental phenols can be assessed by measuring the urinary concentrations of these compounds or their metabolites. Total concentrations, which include both free and conjugated (i.e., glucuronide and sulfated) species, are usually reported. Because conjugation may reduce the potential bioactivity of the compounds, measuring separately both the concentrations of free and conjugated species can be of interest. Data on the stability of these conjugated species in urine is critical if the concentrations of free and conjugated species are to be compared. Over a period of 6 months, we investigated the stability of the urinary conjugates of eight environmental phenols (bisphenol A, 2-hydroxy-4-metoxybenzophenone or benzophenone-3, triclosan, 2,5-dichlorophenol, methyl paraben, ethyl paraben, propyl paraben, and butyl paraben) at three storage conditions (room temperature, 41C, and À701C). After collection, conjugated species appeared to be stable for at least 7 days when the urine was stored at 41C, and for at least 180 days at À701C. By contrast, some of the environmental phenol conjugates commenced to degrade within 24 h after collection when the urine was stored at room temperature although the total concentrations remained relatively constant for at least 30 days. These results suggest that if the concentrations of free and conjugated species will be used for exposure assessment purposes, urine specimens collected for analysis of environmental phenols should be kept at room temperature for the shortest possible time after collection.
The measurement of trace levels of environmental chemicals or their metabolites in biological specimens (i.e., biomonitoring) has become increasingly common for exposure assessment (Pirkle et al., 1995a,b; Borba et al., 1996; Farmer et al., 1996; Brondeau et al., 1999; CDC 2005; Chen et al., 2005; Angerer et al., 2006) . Biomonitoring data suggest that nonoccupational exposures to some environmental chemicals, such as bisphenol A (BPA), 2,5-dichlorophenol (25-DCP), 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone (benzophenone-3, BP-3), triclosan, and parabens are widespread (Hill et al., 1995; Calafat et al., 2005; CDC 2005; Ye et al., 2006a,b) . Upon exposure, environmental phenols, like other environmental chemicals with short biological half-lives, are rapidly metabolized and eliminated in urine. Metabolism may include phase II biotransformations that results in the formation of conjugated species (e.g., glucuronides and sulfates).
Abstract In humans, the metabolism of environmental phenols may include the formation of conjugated species (e.g., glucuronides and sulfates), but the free species—not the conjugated forms—are considered biologically active. Therefore, information on the concentration of these free species in blood or urine could be helpful for risk assessment. Because conjugates could hydrolyze to their corresponding free forms during collection, handling, and storage of biological specimens, information on the temporal stability of the conjugates is of interest. Previously, we reported the temporal stability of urinary conjugates of several environmental phenols, but data on the stability of phenols' conjugated species in serum, albeit critical if concentrations of free and conjugated species are compared, are largely unknown. In the present study, we investigate the stability of the conjugates of four phenols—bisphenol A, benzophenone-3, triclosan, and 2,5-dichlorophenol—and two parabens—methyl paraben and propyl paraben—in 16 human serum samples for 30 days at above-freezing temperature storage conditions (4 °C, room temperature, and 37 °C). These conditions reflect the worst-case scenarios that could occur during the short-term storage of biological samples before their long-term storage at controlled subfreezing temperatures. We found that the percentage of the conjugated species of the four detected compounds (2,5-dichlorophenol, triclosan, and methyl and propyl parabens) in these serum specimens even when stored at 37 °C for at least 30 days did not vary significantly. These preliminary data suggest that the phenols' serum conjugates appear to be more stable than their corresponding urinary conjugates, some of which started to hydrolyze within 24 h under similar storage conditions. The reported stability of these conjugated species in human serum also suggests that the free species are unlikely to have resulted from the hydrolysis of their corresponding conjugates. This information could be important for interpreting the low concentrations of free phenol species detected in serum samples of nonoccupationally exposed populations. To our knowledge, this is the first study to report on the stability of conjugated species in serum, and as such requires replication.
A Pseudomonas species able to degrade p-dichlorobenzene as the sole source of carbon and energy was isolated by selective enrichment from activated sludge. The organism also grew well on chlorobenzene and benzene. Washed cells released chloride in stoichiometric amounts from o-, m-, and p-dichlorobenzene, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 3-chlorocatechol, 4-chlorocatechol, and 3,6-dichlorocatechol. Initial steps in the pathway for p-dichlorobenzene degradation were determined by isolation of metabolites, simultaneous adaptation studies, and assay of enzymes in cell extracts. Results indicate that p-dichlorobenzene was initially converted by a dioxygenase to 3,6-dichloro-cis-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene, which was converted to 3,6-dichlorocatechol by an NAD+-dependent dehydrogenase. Ring cleavage of 3,6-dichlorocatechol was by a 1,2-oxygenase to form 2,5-dichloro-cis, cis-muconate. Enzymes for degradation of haloaromatic compounds were induced in cells grown on chlorobenzene or p-dichlorobenzene, but not in cells grown on benzene, succinate, or yeast extract. Enzymes of the ortho pathway induced in cells grown on benzene did not attack chlorobenzenes or chlorocatechols.
Parabens (esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid) and triclosan are widely used as preservatives and antimicrobial agents, respectively, in personal care products, pharmaceuticals, and food processing. Because of their widespread use and potential risk to human health, assessing human exposure to these compounds in breastfed infants is of interest. We developed a sensitive method, using a unique on-line solid-phase extraction-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry system with peak focusing feature, to measure in human milk the concentrations of five parabens (methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, butyl-, and benzyl parabens), triclosan, and six other environmental phenols: bisphenol A (BPA); ortho-phenylphenol (OPP); 2,4-dichlorophenol; 2,5-dichlorophenol; 2,4,5-trichlorophenol; and 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone (BP-3). The method, validated by use of breast milk pooled samples, shows good reproducibility (inter-day coefficient of variations ranging from 3.5% to 16.3%) and accuracy (spiked recoveries ranging from 84% to 119% at four spiking levels). The detection limits for most of the analytes are below 1 ng mL(-1) in 100 microL of milk. We tested the usefulness of the method by measuring the concentrations of these twelve compounds in four human milk samples. We detected methyl paraben, propyl paraben, triclosan, BPA, OPP, and BP-3 in some of the samples tested. The free species of these compounds appear to be the most prevalent in milk. Nevertheless, to demonstrate the utility of these measures for exposure and risk assessment purposes, additional data about sampling and storage of the milk, and on the stability of the analytes in milk, are needed.
A diverse group of chemicals cause a male rat-specific nephrotoxicity in which alpha 2u-globulin accumulates in renal lysosomes. It has been suggested that these chemicals bind to the protein and decrease its degradation by lysosomal proteinases. To test this hypothesis, the lysosomal degradation of native alpha 2u-globulin and that to which d-limonene, d-limonene-1,2-oxide, isophorone, 1,4-dichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol were bound was studied. alpha 2u-Globulin was purified from male rat urine, and male rat renal cortical lysosomes, isolated by differential centrifugation, served as the proteolytic enzyme source. Pepstatin, an inhibitor of aspartic acid proteinases, and leupeptin, an inhibitor of cysteine proteinases, reduced alpha 2u-globulin degradation to 28 +/- 8 and 17 +/- 5% of control, respectively, whereas addition of both inhibitors decreased alpha 2u-globulin degradation to 8 +/- 1% of control values. These results indicate that both classes of endopeptidases are important in the degradation of alpha 2u-globulin. Under the incubation conditions used, 30% of native alpha 2u-globulin was degraded in a 4-hr period. Conjugates of the protein were made for in vitro binding experiments. Binding of d-limonene and 1,4-dichlorobenzene to alpha 2u-globulin did not alter the degradation of the protein, whereas binding of d-limonene-1,2-oxide, 2.5-dichlorophenol, and isophorone decreased alpha 2u-globulin degradation by 33%. These results indicate that not all chemicals which have been shown to bind in vivo to alpha 2u-globulin alter the in vitro lysosomal degradation of the protein. However, in all cases, one metabolite of each hyaline droplet inducer did alter degradation of alpha 2u-globulin, suggesting that a decrease in lysosomal degradation is involved in the accumulation of this protein in male rat kidney lysosomes.
2,5-Dichlorophenol in total yield of 85. 8% was synthesized from 2,5-dichloroaniline( 2) by firstly diazotization and then hydrolysis in pipeline reactors. The optimum reaction conditions were as followes: 2 was 0. 37 mol,diazotization for 30 s at 20 ℃,hydrolysis for 30 min at 160 ℃.
A Pseudomonas species able to degrade p-dichlorobenzene as the sole source of carbon and energy was isolated by selective enrichment from activated sludge. The organism also grew well on chlorobenzene and benzene. Washed cells released chloride in stoichiometric amounts from o-, m-, and p-dichlorobenzene, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 3-chlorocatechol, 4-chlorocatechol, and 3,6-dichlorocatechol. Initial steps in the pathway for p-dichlorobenzene degradation were determined by isolation of metabolites, simultaneous adaptation studies, and assay of enzymes in cell extracts. Results indicate that p-dichlorobenzene was initially converted by a dioxygenase to 3,6-dichloro-cis-1,2-dihydroxycyclohexa-3,5-diene, which was converted to 3,6-dichlorocatechol by an NAD+-dependent dehydrogenase. Ring cleavage of 3,6-dichlorocatechol was by a 1,2-oxygenase to form 2,5-dichloro-cis, cis-muconate. Enzymes for degradation of haloaromatic compounds were induced in cells grown on chlorobenzene or p-dichlorobenzene, but not in cells grown on benzene, succinate, or yeast extract. Enzymes of the ortho pathway induced in cells grown on benzene did not attack chlorobenzenes or chlorocatechols.
Abstract Background Maternal exposure to environmental phenols is common in pregnancy and has been linked to preterm birth, preeclampsia, and reduced fetal growth. One potential mechanism may be through increased maternal oxidative stress. Objective We examined the associations between a panel of 10 urinary phenols, including dichlorophenols, benzophenone-3, parabens, triclosan and triclocarban, and bisphenol-S, and two urinary oxidative stress biomarkers, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and 8-isoprostane. All exposure and outcome biomarkers were measured at 4 time points in pregnancy. Methods We used repeated measures models to examine the association between repeated exposure and outcome biomarkers. Additionally, we used adaptive elastic net (AENET) to identify non-null associations accounting for the correlation structure of exposures, both for phenols and urinary phthalate metabolites that were previously associated with the oxidative stress biomarkers in our study population. Results In adjusted repeated measures models, we observed that dichlorophenols, benzophenone-3, triclosan, and some parabens were associated with increases in both oxidative stress biomarkers. The greatest effect estimates were observed for 2,5-dichlorophenol; an interquartile range (IQR) increase in this compound was associated with a 15.2% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 11.0, 19.6) increase in 8-OHdG and a 16.7% (95% CI = 9.66, 24.2) increase in 8-isoprostane. Bisphenol-S detection was associated with a clear increase in 8-isoprostane (18.5%, 95% CI = 7.68, 30.5) but a more modest increase in 8-OHdG (6.18%, 95% CI = −0.27, 13.1). However, AENET models did not consistently select any of the phenols as predictors of 8-OHdG or 8-isoprostane when phthalate metabolites were included in the model. Conclusion Overall, urinary phenols were associated with increases in biomarkers of oxidative stress in pregnancy but either to a lesser extent, or due to correlation with, urinary phthalate metabolites.
Heterogeneous catalysts that can absorb light over the solar range are ideal for green photocatalysis. Recently, attention has been directed towards the generation of novel solar-light photocatalysts, in particular, metal-free polymers. Herein, it is demonstrated that a metal-free, nonconjugated, anthraquinone-based copolymer (poly[1,4-diamine-9,10-dioxoanthracene-alt-(benzene-1,4-dioic acid)] (COP)) with a strong absorption in the visible region is effective as a sunlight heterogeneous photocatalyst. As a proof of concept, it has been used to mineralize 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) in water under air and sunlight irradiation. The photocatalytic efficiency of COP compares well with that of TiO2-P25 when the reaction is carried out in a solar photoreactor in acid medium. Steady-state and time-resolved (absorption and emission) studies performed on COP suspended in 6:4 DMF/H2O have provided valuable information about the COP species generated under different pH conditions. Steady-state absorption and fluorescence data are consistent with the existence of a tautomeric equilibrium between the 9,10-keto and 1,10-iminoketo quinoid forms for the anthraquinone in the ground state. Moreover, in basic media, transient absorption measurements showed the presence of two bands ascribed to the tautomeric triplet excited states, whereas only one of the triplets was observed in acid medium. A mechanism for the photocatalyzed degradation of 2,5-DCP by COP is proposed on the basis of these observations.
Preparation of 2,5-dichlorophenol by selectively oxidizing 1,4-dichlorobenzene using a peroxo-, hydroperoxo-, superoxo- or alkylperoxo-vanadium species in the presence of an alpha-hydroxy-, dibasic-, tribasic- or sulfonic acid.
Abstract Large dumps of unused γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) have become an issue of concern. The overall salinity of soil enhances due to the release of potassium cations by the insecticide in the polluted soil, which may limit microbial degradation. The current work addresses this problem through the isolation of γ-HCH degrading halophilic bacteria from HCH dumpsite using γ-HCH as a sole carbon source by selective enrichment technique. Strain LD2 was found to be the most efficient degrader, degrading 89.6% lindane in 7 days. Low amount of metabolites like 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) were identified during the degradation. The strain was able to utilize lindane at a range of salt concentrations from 10 to 150 g L −1 NaCl where the highest degradation was achieved at 50 g L −1 of NaCl. The bacterial strain LD2 was identified as Chromohalobacter sp. LD2 on the basis of 16S rDNA sequence similarity (KU934224.1). These results revealed that Chromohalobacter sp. LD2 might be a potential candidate for bioremediation in saline environments to decontaminate γ-HCH from polluted sites.
Environmental context. Chlorophenols pollute natural waters and soils, as well as urban waste water systems. Although toxic and carcinogenic to animals and humans, a detailed knowledge of their action is limited. A new approach to effective degradation in the environment is advanced oxidation processes with sulfate radicals. The radicals can originate from the oxidation of sulfur dioxide or sulfites to make these common pollutants and food additives interact with chlorophenols. The main goal of this work is to determine rate constants for reactions of these chlorophenols with sulfate radicals in order to shed some light on the chemical kinetics of these reactions. Abstract. Kinetic experiments have shown that six chlorophenols (CPs) inhibit the autoxidation of SIV catalysed by Fe(ClO4)3 in aqueous solution at 25°C and pH ≈ 3.0. Efficiency of the inhibition decreases with the number of chlorine substituents for all CPs except for 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), which ranked between the tri- and tetrachlorophenols. The inhibition is explained by reactions of chlorophenols with sulfate radicals, the chain carriers in the mechanism of autoxidation. Rate constants for these reactions are determined for the first time, using the reversed-rates method with ethanol as a reference inhibitor: 8.7 × 109 (4-CP), 7.4 × 109 (2,4-DCP), 1.9 × 109 (2,5-DCP), 2.4 × 109 (2,4,5-TCP), 2.9 × 109 (2,4,6-TCP), and 7.5 × 108 (2,3,5,6-TTCP); 4.3 × 107 (ethanol reference) M–1 s–1. Linear correlations were derived for the estimation of rate constants for the remaining chlorophenols using sums of Brown substituent coefficients or relative strengths of O–H bonds. The results can be used in the development of advanced oxidation processes that utilise sulfate radicals for mineralisation of chlorophenols in wastewaters, and also demonstrate that chlorophenols can extend the lifetimes of SO2 and sulfites in natural and atmospheric waters.
The invention relates to a preparation method of dicamba and belongs to the technical field of preparation of herbicide dicamba. The preparation method of dicamba comprises the following technical steps of: performing directional chlorination, catalysis and melt crystallization on benzene used as a raw material so as to generate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene; then hydrolyzing by use of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene so as to generate a 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol mixture; then separating and purifying so as to obtain 2,5-dichlorophenol; preparing 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid by use of 2,5-dichlorophenol; and performing methylation, saponification and acidification reaction on 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid so as to obtain dicamba. By virtue of optimization of technical steps and parameters, the whole preparation process is simple, the cost is low, the yield is high, the selectivity is high, the wastewater quantity is obviously reduced, and the equipment utilization ratio is improved.
Defensive secretions of Na38Cl-injected eastern lubber grasshopper, Romalea microptera (Palisot de Beauvois), contained no detectable radioactive 2,5-dichlorophenol or other benzene soluble 38Cl-containing material. It does not appear that this insect synthesizes the chlorinated phenol.
The defensive froth emitted by the grasshopper Romalea microptera contains several odorous compounds (phenols, terpenes, benzoquinone), including a chlorinated aromatic compound, 2,5-dichlorophenol. This compound, which is repellent to ants and therefore defensively useful to the grasshopper, probably stems from herbicide or herbicide derivative ingested by the insect with its diet. Although there is precedent for the defensive employ by one species of chemical agents produced by another, no instance was known involving secondary utilization of a pesticide dispensed by man.
Pure and technical grade leptophos (O-4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl O-methyl phenylphosphonothioate) and some of its degradation products were screened for delayed neurotoxicity following daily oral administration to hens. Minor modification of the leptophos molecule did not abolish its neurotoxic effect. In contrast, the hydrolytic products, 4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenol and phenylphosphonic acid, had no neurotoxic action. The effectiveness of esters to induce delayed neurotoxicity was, in descending order: O-2,5-dichlorophenyl O-methyl phenylphosphonothioate (desbromoleptophos) >; pure leptophos > technical grade leptophos > O-4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl O-methyl phenylphosphonate (leptophos oxon). Leptophos oxon was only weakly effective as a neurotoxic agent probably because it was unstable in the body and by the time it had reached the target for neurotoxic action it had been hydrolyzed to nonneurotoxic products. Histopathologic examination of hens that died during the study or were killed 30 days after completion of treatment showed marked axon and myelin degeneration in the sciatic, peroneal, and tibial nerves and spinal cord of most hens. The lesions in peripheral nerves were generally seen earlier and in fewer hens than those in spinal cord. The most consistent histopathological changes were degeneration of axons and myelin in the spinal cord. Leptophos oxon was the most potent inhibitor of brain and plasma cholinesterases. Also, the activity of plasma butyryl cholinesterase was more inhibited than brain acetylcholinesterase. Controls consisted of four groups of hens given daily oral doses of 10 mg/kg tri-o-cresyl phosphate (TOCP), 1.0 mg/kg O,O-diethyl-O-4-nitrophenyl phosphorothioate (parathion), and an empty gelatin capsule. TOCP-treated hens developed delayed neurotoxicity while those given parathion showed initial leg weakness but subsequently recovered without developing delayed neurotoxicity. Control hens receiving gelatin capsules remained normal. This study suggests that changes in structure of leptophos as it is absorbed, metabolized, accumulated, and eliminated in vivo, significantly affect the development and severity of delayed neurotoxicity. The chicken continues to be an ideal model for screening organophosphorus pesticides for their capacity to produce delayed neurotoxicity.
INTRODUCTION ::: Phenols and parabens are ubiquitous environmental contaminants. Evidence from animal studies and limited human data suggest they may be endocrine disruptors. In the current study, we examined associations of phenols and parabens with reproductive and thyroid hormones in 106 pregnant women recruited for the prospective cohort, "Puerto Rico Testsite for Exploring Contamination Threats (PROTECT)". ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Urinary exposure biomarkers (bisphenol A, triclosan, benzophenone-3, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, butyl, methyl and propyl paraben) and serum hormone levels (estradiol, progesterone, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxine (FT4) and thyroid stimulating hormone) were measured at up to two time points during pregnancy (16-20 weeks and 24-28 weeks). We used linear mixed models to assess relationships between exposure biomarkers and hormone levels across pregnancy, controlling for urinary specific gravity, maternal age, BMI and education. In sensitivity analyses, we evaluated cross-sectional relationships between exposure and hormone levels stratified by study visit using linear regression. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: An IQR increase in methyl paraben was associated with a 7.70% increase (95% CI 1.50, 13.90) in SHBG. Furthermore, an IQR increase in butyl paraben as associated with an 8.46% decrease (95% CI 16.92, 0.00) in estradiol, as well as a 9.34% decrease (95% CI -18.31,-0.38) in estradiol/progesterone. Conversely, an IQR increase in butyl paraben was associated with a 5.64% increase (95% CI 1.26, 10.02) in FT4. Progesterone was consistently negatively associated with phenols, but none reached statistical significance. After stratification, methyl and propyl paraben were suggestively negatively associated with estradiol at the first time point (16-20 weeks), and suggestively positively associated with estradiol at the second time point (24-28 weeks). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Within this ongoing birth cohort, certain phenols and parabens were associated with altered reproductive and thyroid hormone levels during pregnancy. These changes may contribute to adverse health effects in mothers or their offspring, but additional research is required.
Introduction: Phenols and parabens are ubiquitous environmental contaminants. Evidence from animal studies and limited human data suggest they may be endocrine disruptors. In the current study, we examined associations of phenols and parabens with reproductive and thyroid hormones in 106 pregnant women recruited for the prospective cohort, "Puerto Rico Testsite for Exploring Contamination Threats (PROTECT)". Methods: Urinary exposure biomarkers (bisphenol A, triclosan, benzophenone-3, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, butyl, methyl and propyl paraben) and serum hormone levels (estradiol, progesterone, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxine (FT4) and thyroid stimulating hormone) were measured at up to two time points during pregnancy (16-20 weeks and 24-28 weeks). We used linear mixed models to assess relationships between exposure biomarkers and hormone levels across pregnancy, controlling for urinary specific gravity, maternal age, BMI and education. In sensitivity analyses, we evaluated cross-sectional relationships between exposure and hormone levels stratified by study visit using linear regression. Results: An IQR increase in methyl paraben was associated with a 7.70% increase (95% CI 1.50, 13.90) in SHBG. Furthermore, an IQR increase in butyl paraben as associated with an 8.46% decrease (95% CI 16.92, 0.00) in estradiol, as well as a 9.34% decrease (95% CI À 18.31, À 0.38) in estradiol/progesterone. Conversely, an IQR increase in butyl paraben was associated with a 5.64% increase (95% CI 1.26, 10.02) in FT4. Progesterone was consistently negatively associated with phenols, but none reached statistical significance. After stratification, methyl and propyl paraben were suggestively negatively associated with estradiol at the first time point (16-20 weeks), and suggestively positively associated with estradiol at the second time point (24-28 weeks). Conclusions: Within this ongoing birth cohort, certain phenols and parabens were associated with altered reproductive and thyroid hormone levels during pregnancy. These changes may contribute to adverse health effects in mothers or their offspring, but additional research is required.
2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) is a metabolite of the widely used herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) is a metabolite of 1,4-dichlorobenzene, a compound used in mothballs and room deodorizers (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2015) . 2,4-DCP and 2,5-DCP exposure inutero has been linked to decreased birthweight in humans (Philippat et al., 2012) . 2,5-DCP was also associated with earlier breast development in young girls (Wolff et al., 2015) , and greater percent fat mass in children (Buckley et al., 2016) , and was theorized to be a thyroid agonist (Wolff et al., 2015) .
Pulp bleaching effluents are of great concern to environment, especially chlorine bleaching effluents because of the formation of toxic chlorinated organic compounds. Reed pulp CEH bleaching effluents were selected as studied objects and key toxicants identification was studied in this paper. The results showed that 1,3,3-trichloro-4-metho-2-penketone, 3,4,5-trichloroguaiacol, 3,4,6-trichloroguaiacol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2-chloro naphthalene, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol are the key toxicants in C stage effluent. 3-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, 3,4-dichloroguaiacol, 4,6-dichloroguaiacol, 4,5-dichloroguaiacol, 3,4,6-trichloroguaiacol and tetrachloroguaiacol are the key toxicants in E stage effluent. Pentachloro-cyclopropane is the key toxicant in H stage effluent in reed pulp CEH bleaching process.
Abstract Background Prenatal environmental phenol and phthalate exposures may alter immune or inflammatory responses leading to respiratory and allergic disease. Objectives We estimated associations of prenatal environmental phenol and phthalate biomarkers with respiratory and allergic outcomes among children in the Mount Sinai Children's Environmental Health Study. Methods We quantified urinary biomarkers of benzophenone-3, bisphenol A, paradichlorobenzene (as 2,5-dichlorophenol), triclosan, and 10 phthalate metabolites in third trimester maternal samples and assessed asthma, wheeze, and atopic skin conditions via parent questionnaires at ages 6 and 7 years ( n = 164 children with 240 observations). We used logistic regression to estimate covariate-adjusted odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) per standard deviation difference in natural log biomarker concentrations and examined effect measure modification by child's sex. Results Associations of prenatal 2,5-dichlorophenol (all outcomes) and bisphenol A (asthma outcomes) were modified by child's sex, with increased odds of outcomes among boys but not girls. Among boys, ORs for asthma diagnosis per standard deviation difference in biomarker concentration were 3.00 (95% CI: 1.36, 6.59) for 2,5-dichlorophenol and 3.04 (95% CI: 1.38, 6.68) for bisphenol A. Wheeze in the past 12 months was inversely associated with low molecular weight phthalate metabolites among girls only (OR: 0.27, 95% CI: 0.13, 0.59) and with benzophenone-3 among all children (OR: 0.65, 95% CI: 0.44, 0.96). Conclusions Prenatal bisphenol A and paradichlorobenzene exposures were associated with pediatric respiratory outcomes among boys. Future studies may shed light on biological mechanisms and potential sexually-dimorphic effects of select phenols and phthalates on respiratory disease development.
The construction in Constantí (Tarragona County, Catalonia) of the first, and up till now the only hazardous waste incinerator (HWI) in Spain, finished in 1999. In this study, we measured the concentrations of a number of organic substances determined in blood and urine of the HWI workers. Samples of 18 men and 9 women, classified according to their respective workplaces, were collected in 2011, after approximately 12 years of regular operations in the facility. The current results were compared with those of the baseline survey, as well as with the most recent surveys performed in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Plasma analyses were carried out for hexachlorobenzene (HCB), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs 28, 52, 101, 138, 153, and 180) and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs), while the levels of 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCP), 2,4,5- and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP), pentachlorophenol (PCP) and 1-hydroxypyrene (1-HP) were measured in urine samples. In plasma, the mean concentrations were the following: 10.8μg/kg lipid for HCB; 0.8μg/kg lipid for PCB28; 0.3μg/kg lipid for PCB52; 0.5μg/kg lipid for PCB101; 42.2μg/kg lipid for PCB138; 18.5μg/kg lipid for PCB153, and 51.2μg/kg lipid for PCB180. For PCDD/Fs, the mean concentration was 4.6ng I-TEQ/kg lipid (4.7ng WHO-TEQ/kg lipid). These levels, as well as those found in urine samples, are in agreement with the data of previous surveys performed in the same area. The current results in HWI workers do not show any evident sign of occupational exposure to PCDD/Fs and other organic substances. However, these results must be considered only as an indication of potential exposure, as the study presents notable limitations, such as the reduced number of participants and the lack of data relative to the air concentrations of chemicals. Consequently, general conclusions cannot be derived and the results should not be used as a basis for the implementation of industrial hygiene measures in other HWIs.
Puerto Rico has higher rates of a range of endocrine-related diseases and disorders compared to the United States. However, little is known to date about human exposures to known or potential endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) in Puerto Rico. We recruited 105 pregnant women in Northern Puerto Rico who provided urine samples and questionnaire data at three times (18 ± 2, 22 ± 2, and 26 ± 2 weeks) during gestation. We measured the urinary concentrations of five phenols and three parabens: 2,4-dichlorophenol (24-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (25-DCP), benzophenone-3 (BP-3), bisphenol A (BPA), triclosan (TCS), butyl paraben (B-PB), methyl paraben (M-PB), and propyl paraben (P-PB). The frequent detection of these chemicals suggests that exposure is highly prevalent among these Puerto Rican pregnant women. Urinary concentrations of TCS, BP-3, and 25-DCP were higher than among women of reproductive age in the US general population, while concentrations of BPA, 24-DCP, and parabens were similar. Intraclass correlat...
Derivative spectrophotometry (zero-crossing technique) was ::: applied to the determination of selected phenols and herbicides in ::: two-component mixtures. Methyl- and chlorophenols (3-methylphenol, 2,3- and ::: 3,4-dimethylphenol, 2,5-, 2,6- and 3,4-dichlorophenol and ::: 2,4,5-trichlorophenol) and triazine, uracil and urea herbicides (simazine, ::: propazine, hexazinone, bromacil and metoxuron) were examined. The RSD ::: values ranged between 0.05 and 4% and the recoveries obtained were between ::: 97 and 110%. The developed derivative spectrophotometric method was also ::: applied as a complementary technique for the separation of overlapping ::: peaks of sample compounds obtained by HPLC with diode-array detection. ::: Metoxuron and 3-methylphenol, metoxuron and 2,5-dichlorophenol and simazine ::: and 2,6-dichlorophenol were determined simultaneously by this method at the ::: level of 1 × 10−3 g l−1.
Thyroid and reproductive hormones, inflammatory responses and oxidative stress play an important role in maintaining a healthy pregnancy and an adequate gestational duration (Casey, 2006; Castracane, 2000; Kemp, 2014; Kumar and Magon, 2012; Smith et al., 2009) . Therefore, environmental chemicals that influence hormones and inflammatory responses could potentially lead to adverse health effects during pregnancy. Phenols and parabens are a group of ubiquitous chemicals commonly found in personal care products and household items that have been associated with changes in reproductive and thyroid hormones, as well as increased inflammation levels in pregnancy (Aker et al., 2016; Boas et al., 2009; Kolatorova et al., 2018; Neier et al., 2015; Watkins et al., 2015) . For example, BPA was associated with an increase in FT4 (Aker et al., 2016) , and parabens were generally associated with a decrease in thyroid hormones (Koeppe et al., 2013) . These groups of chemicals have also been linked to a number of growth parameters during pregnancy and at birth, including birth weight, birth length and gestational age (Ferguson et al., 2018; Lassen et al., 2016; Philippat et al., 2014; Tang et al., 2013; Wolff et al., 2008) . Studies are lacking on birth outcomes in relation to triclocarban, a chemical with antibacterial properties, as well as bisphenol A (BPA) replacement phenols such as bisphenol S (BPS) and bisphenol F (BPF), even though BPA replacements are found in a high prevalence of urine samples from the general population, and have comparable endocrine disrupting effects to BPA (Rochester and Bolden, 2015) We were interested in exploring the association between triclocarban, phenols and parabens in relation to birth outcomes in a cohort in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico has increased rates of adverse birth outcomes, such as preterm birth, and the reasons behind this elevated rate are unclear Premature Birth Report Card, 2017 . There is also evidence for elevated exposures to a range of contaminants on the island. The Puerto Rico Testsite for Exploring Contamination Threats (PROTECT), is a multi-disciplinary center that established a pregnancy cohort in Puerto Rico to investigate the role of environmental contamination in adverse birth outcomes. This analysis explores relationships between birth outcomes and urinary concentrations of triclocarban and 11 phenols and parabens: 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, BPA, BPS, BPF, benzophenone-3, triclosan, and ethyl-, methyl-, butyl-and propyl-paraben.
Cyclic voltammetry studies were carried out on a platinum electrode in alkaline 1 M NaOH solutions containing 0.1 M of phenol, monochlorophenols, dichlorophenols, trichlorophenols and pentachlorophenol in order to compare their electropolymerization ability and the degree of deactivation of the electrode. These show that fouling of the Pt electrode occurs during the electrooxidation of all the phenols studied. Almost full deactivation of the electrode occurs in the case of phenol and 3-chlorophenol after five cycles, while 4-chlorophenol, 3,4-dichlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol deactivate the electrode completely after the first cycle. Partial deactivation of the electrode occurs in the case of 2-chlorophenol, 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol. A weak fouling of the electrode occurs in the case of 3,5-dichlorophenol, 2,3,6-trichlorophenol and pentachlorophenol. Such differences in the degree of electrode deactivation may be explained by the different structure (permeability) of the polymeric tars formed. The structure of the tars depends on the monomer structure. Presumably, more regular and dense polymer structures deactivate the electrode more rapidly. More branched, irregular high molecular weight substances deactivate the electrode more slowly.
This work proposes for the first time the use of a three phase hollow fiber liquid phase microextraction (HF-LPME) procedure for the simultaneous extraction, and the later HPLC determination, of some phenol substituting compounds (alkyl-, chloro- and nitrophenols) that are considered as highly toxic compounds and/or endocrine disrupting ones. The substances studied include four chlorophenols (CPs): 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 2,6-dichlorophenol (2,6-DCP) and pentachlorophenol (PCP), three nitrophenols (NPs): 2,4-dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP), 2,5-dinitrophenol (2,5-DNP) and 2,6-dinitriphenol (2,6-DNP) and two alkylphenols (APs): tert butylphenol (TBP) and sec butylphenol (SBP). The extraction was carried out through a dihexyl ether liquid membrane supported on an Accurel(®) Q3/2 polypropylene hollow fiber. Optimum pH for donor and acceptor phases and extraction time were established. The enrichment (preconcentration) factors obtained were between 30 and 700 that allows detection limits between 140 and 290 pg mL(-1). The method was successfully applied to the determination of the compounds in environmental water samples, including urban wastewaters.
An anaerobic bacterium, strain PCP-1T (T = type strain), which dechlorinates pentachlorophenol (PCP) to 3-chlorophenol, was isolated from a methanogenic consortium. This organism is a spore-forming rod-shaped bacterium that is nonmotile, asaccharolytic, and Gram stain negative but Gram type positive as determined by electron microscopic observations. Inorganic electron acceptors, such as sulfite, thiosulfate, and nitrate (but not sulfate), stimulate growth in the presence of pyruvate and yeast extract. The optimum pH and optimum temperature for growth are 7.5 and 38°C, respectively. The dechlorination pathway is: PCP → 2,3,4,5-tetra-chlorophenol → 3,4,5-trichlorophenol → 3,5-dichlorophenol → 3-chlorophenol. This bacterium dechlorinates several different chlorophenols at ortho, meta, and para positions; exceptions to this are 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 3,4-dichlorophenol, and the monochlorophenols. The time course of PCP dechlorination suggests that two enzyme systems are involved in dehalogenation in strain PCP-1T. One system is inducible for ortho dechlorination, and the second system is inducible for meta and para dechlorinations. A 16S rRNA analysis revealed that strain PCP-1T exhibits 95% homology with Desulfitobacterium dehalogenans JW/IU-DC1, an anaerobic bacterium which can dehalogenate chlorophenols only in ortho positions. These results suggest that strain PCP-1T is a member of a new species and belongs to the recently proposed genus Desulfitobacterium. Strain PCP-1T differs from D. dehalogenans JW/IU-DC1 by its broader range of chlorophenol dechlorination. Strain PCP-1 is the type strain of the new species, Desulfitobacterium frappieri.
This study was undertaken to determine the association of four chlorophenol pesticides with cardiometabolic risk factors and obesity in children and adolescents. This cross-sectional study was conducted in 2016 on 242 children and adolescents, aged 6 to 18 years. The concentrations of 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP), and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP) in the urine were examined and their association with indices of obesity and cardiometabolic risk factors was determined. Multivariate linear regression and multinomial logistic regression analyses were applied. Overall, 242 participants with mean (SD) ages of 11.3 (2.5) years completed the survey. After adjustment for confounders, a significant positive association was found between body mass index (BMI) z-score and waist circumference (WC) with 2,5-DCP (0.07 (95% CI 0.04, 0.1)) and 0.79 (95% CI 0.54, 1.03), respectively. A significant association of 2,4,5-TCP was only found with WC (0.23 (95% CI 0.0, 0.46), but the relationship with 2,4-DCP was not significant. 2,5-DCP had a significant relationship only with obesity (1.09 (95% CI 1.1, 1.19)), while 2,4-DCP and 2,4,5-TCP showed no significant correlation with overweight or obesity. 2,4-DCP showed a significant positive relationship with high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C). Moreover, 2,5-DCP showed a significant negative relationship only with systolic blood pressure and 2,4,5-TCP had a statistically significant inverse association with total cholesterol and HDL-C (−0.71 (95% CI −0.98, −0.45)). This study suggests potential associations of chlorophenol pesticides with overweight, obesity, lipid profile, and blood pressure in children and adolescents. Longitudinal studies are necessary to assess the clinical impact of these findings.
An anaerobic bacterium, strain PCP-lT (T = type strain), which dechlorinates pentachlorophenol (PCP) to 3-chlorophenol, was isolated from a methanogenic consortium. This organism is a spore-forming rod-shaped bacterium that is nonmotile, asaccharolytic, and Gram stain negative but Gram type positive as determined by electron microscopic observations. Inorganic electron acceptors, such as sulfite, thiosulfate, and nitrate (but not sulfate), stimulate growth in the presence of pyruvate and yeast extract. The optimum pH and optimum temperature for growth are 7.5 and 38"C, respectively. The dechlorination pathway is: PCP -+ 2,3,4,5-tetrachlorophenol + 3,4,5-trichlorophenoI + 3,5-dichlorophenol + 3-chlorophenol. This bacterium dechlorinates several different chlorophenols at ortho, meta, and para positions; exceptions to this are 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 3,4-dichlorophenol, and the monochlorophenols. The time course of PCP dechlorination suggests that two enzyme systems are involved in dehalogenation in strain PCP-lT. One system is inducible for ortho dechlorination, and the second system is inducible for meta and para dechlorinations. A 16s rRNA analysis revealed that strain PCP-lT exhibits 95% homology with Desu@tobacterium dehalogenans JW/IU-DCl, an anaerobic bacterium which can dehalogenate chlorophenols only in ortho positions. These results suggest that strain PCP-lT is a member of a new species and belongs to the recently proposed genus DesuZjhbacteriurn. Strain PCP-lT differs from D. dehalogenans JW/IU-DCl by its broader range of chlorophenol dechlorination. Strain PCP-1 is the type strain of the new species, DesuEftobacterium frappieri.
Objective: To assess baseline concentrations of a number of metals and organic compounds in blood and urine of 28 workers employed at a new hazardous waste incinerator (HWI), before operation of the plant. Methods: Plasma analyses of hexachlorobenzene (HCB), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB 28, 52, 101, 138, 153 and 180), benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, m-xylene, and polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) were carried out. The urinary levels of 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCPs), 2,4,5- and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCPs) and pentachlorophenol (PCP), as well as those of 1-hydroxypyrene (1-HP) were also measured. Beryllium (Be), manganese (Mn), mercury (Hg) and lead (Pb) concentrations were determined in total blood, while the levels of arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), chromium (Cr), nickel (Ni) and vanadium (V) were measured in urine. Results: The levels of benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and m-xylene were under their respective detection limits. The concentrations of HCB, PCBs and PCDD/Fs in plasma of the HWI workers, chlorophenols (CLPs) and 1-HP urinary concentrations, as well as those of metals in blood and urine are shown. PCDD/F concentrations in plasma of the new HWI workers ranged between 13.4 and 84.0 pg international toxic equivalents (I-TEQ)/g lipid, with a geometric mean value of 24.4 pg I-TEQ/g lipid. Discussion: PCDD/F levels, as well as the concentrations of PCBs were of the same order of magnitude as those recently obtained for non-occupationally exposed populations of Catalonia (Spain). No significant gender differences were found for the levels of HCB, PCBs and PCDD/Fs. Although the present results showed a notable variability in the levels of CLPs, geometric mean values of these compounds were similar or even lower than those considered as potential reference values. Metal concentrations in blood and urine were also of the same order of magnitude than previously reported metal levels in the same area. Conclusion: The present results should be useful in future surveys in which internal exposure of the HWI workers will be determined.
Abstract The objectives of the present research were (i) to report the mass balance of chlorine during pentachlorophenol (PCP) photodegradation and (ii) to reveal the photodegradation pathway experimentally with a theoretical proof based on the density functional theory (DFT). The chlorine of PCP was completely mineralized to produce chloride ions after 24 h of UV irradiation. As intermediates, 2,3,5,6-tetrachlorophenol, 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol were identified. At least 80% of the chlorine balance during PCP photodegradation was accounted by PCP, these intermediates, and chloride ions. A DFT calculation showed differences in the C–Cl bond dissociation energy level and the positions of respective PCP molecular and the PCP intermediates. The dechlorination intermediates predicted using the calculated C–Cl bond dissociation energy were consistent with those experimentally confirmed, indicating the feasibility of this theoretical method in predicting the dechlorination pathway.
Abstract. Inhalation toxicokinetics of p-dichlorobenzene (p-DCB) in humans was evaluated, and the amounts of daily absorption and internal accumulation were estimated in order to obtain fundamental data for the risk assessment of chronic low-level exposure in the general population. Seven male subjects continuously inhaled about 2.5 ppm of p-DCB vapor for 1 h, and the concentration-time courses of p-DCB in their exhaled air and serum and of urinary 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), a major metabolite of p-DCB, were examined. The toxicokinetics of p-DCB was evaluated on the basis of the time courses using a linear two-compartment model. The amounts of p-DCB absorbed daily and the internal accumulation in chronic low-level exposure were extrapolated using the estimated toxicokinetic parameters. p-DCB was transferred from inhaled air to the body with a constant high absorption rate during exposure. The major route for elimination from the body was urinary excretion followed by metabolism, not exhalation. However, during 9–11 h after the start of exposure, the fraction of p-DCB excreted in urine was only 5–16% of the amount absorbed. Furthermore, most of the absorbed p-DCB seemed to be distributed rapidly to the tissues, such as fat, according to toxicokinetic analysis. Consequently, p-DCB seems to require a long time to be completely eliminated from the body. The amounts of daily absorption and internal accumulation were extrapolated to average 0.27 mg/day and 2.9 mg, respectively, in the subjects exposed chronically to 1 ppb of p-DCB. The amount absorbed daily agreed approximately with that extrapolated from rats which inhaled p-DCB in our previous study.
p-Dichlorobenzene (p-DCB*) has been widely used as a repellent, an aerosol deodorant and a mildew control agent. Hill et al. (1) reported that, among 1000 adults in the USA, 98% had detectable levels of 2,5-dichlorophenol in their urine. The US Environmental Protection Agency has classified p-DCB
Abstract Urinary monitoring of exposed workers by either analytic chemical methods or radioimmunoassay suggests that urinary levels of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) exceeding 30 ppb are indicative of occupational exposure. However, the current methods do not lend themselves to clinical laboratory use in the rural medical setting. The major goal of this project was to provide medical practitioners who care for members of the agricultural community with a cost-efficient way to conduct exposure assessment. This project used a direct 2,4-D enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and measurement of the ratio between 2,4-D–spiked and non-spiked samples of the same urine to quantify 2,4-D levels. This simplified approach minimizes the effects of non-specific interfering substances in urine and eliminates the need for sample extraction and clean-up. Possible urine co-contaminants (2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol) do not significantly interfere with this immunoassay. Twenty-two forest pesticide applicators who apply and use chlorophenoxy herbicides in their work and 14 comparable control subjects were studied to validate the assay in the occupational setting. Coded urine specimens were examined for levels of 2,4-D by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) and compared with immunoassay results from the same specimens. A correlation coefficient of r = 0.982 with a P value of.0001 for a plot of HPLC-MS/MS versus immunoassay demonstrated that the results from these methods were comparable over urinary dose levels ranging from not detectable (
We investigated the anaerobic biodegradation of mono- and dichlorophenol isomers by fresh (unacclimated) sludge and by sludge acclimated to either 2-chlorophenol, 3-chlorophenol, or 4-chlorophenol. Biodegradation was evaluated by monitoring substrate disappearance and, in selected cases, production of 14CH4 from labeled substrates. In unacclimated sludge, each of the monochlorophenol isomers was degraded. The relative rates of disappearance were in this order: ortho greater than meta greater than para. For the dichlorophenols in unacclimated sludge, reductive dechlorination of the Cl group ortho to phenolic OH was observed, and the monochlorophenol compounds released were subsequently degraded. 3,4-Dichlorophenol and 3,5-dichlorophenol were persistent. Sludge acclimated to 2-chlorophenol cross-acclimated to 4-chlorophenol but did not utilize 3-chlorophenol. This sludge also degraded 2,4-dichlorophenol. Sludge acclimated to 3-chlorophenol cross-acclimated to 4-chlorophenol but not to 2-chlorophenol. This sludge degraded 3,4- and 3,5-dichlorophenol but not 2,3- or 2,5-dichlorophenol. The specific cross-acclimation patterns observed for monochlorophenol degradation demonstrated the existence of two unique microbial activities that were in turn different from fresh sludge. The sludge acclimated to 4-chlorophenol could degrade all three monochlorophenol isomers and 2,4- and 3,4-dichlorophenol. The active microbial population in this sludge appeared to be a mixture of populations present in the 2-chlorphenol- and 3-chlorophenol-acclimated sludges, both of which could utilize 4-chlorophenol. Experiments with 14C-radiolabeled p-chlorophenol, o-chlorophenol, and 2,4-dichlorophenol demonstrated that these compounds were converted to 14CH4 and 14CO2.
Data are sparse regarding effects of the other phenols on prenatal and postnatal weight. in a preliminary study, among a subsample of 191 male newborns from the French eden mother-child cohort, we observed a negative association between 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol and birth weight and a positive association between benzophenone-3 and birth weight. 15 these results were in agreement with another publication concerning male newborns from new York city.
Urine samples were collected between 22 and 29 gestational weeks. Women were asked to collect the first morning urine at home before the hospital study visit. if forgotten, the urine sample was collected at the hospital during the prenatal study visit. Urine samples were aliquoted and stored at −80°c. Measurements of 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol, bisphenol a, benzophenone-3, triclosan, methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, and butylparabens, 20 and creatinine were performed at the centers for Disease control and Prevention (cDc) in atlanta, ga. Depending on the phenol biomarkers, the coefficients of variation of about 60 replicates in a period of 9 months were between 3% and 10% at concentrations ranging from around the effect estimates are reported for an increase by 1 iQr of the ln-transformed phenol standardized concentrations. Models for prenatal growth were adjusted for maternal and paternal height, pre-pregnancy weight, maternal active and passive smoking during pregnancy, maternal education level, recruitment center, gestational age at measurement, and parity. the model for head circumference at birth was additionally adjusted for the number of days between birth and the assessment of head circumference. Models for postnatal growth were adjusted for maternal and paternal height, pre-pregnancy weight, maternal active and passive smoking during pregnancy, maternal education level, recruitment center, breastfeeding duration, and parity. 2 to 70 ng/ml. total paraben concentration (∑PB) was calculated by summing molar concentrations of the 4 parabens. Sample shipments to cDc and phenol measurements were performed during 2 periods. among the 191 male newborns in our previous study that assessed the associations of phenols with male genital anomalies and birth outcomes (weight, height, head circumference), 15, 21 110 matched the inclusion criteria of the present study and were considered here. their urine samples were analyzed for phenols in 2008. in 2011, we extended phenol measurements to the remaining 410 women matching the inclusion criteria (eFigure 1, http:// links.lww.com/eDe/a801). Year of analysis was taken into account in statistical analyses (see below). the laboratory used the same analytic methodology to analyze all samples.
Abstract The effect of hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (HTAB) on the photocatalytic degradation of phenol (Phe), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP) in the presence of aqueous TiO2 suspensions at pH ca. 5 was investigated using a laboratory photoreactor equipped with a medium-pressure mercury lamp. Inhibition of substrate decomposition was observed for phenol, both below and above the surfactant critical micellar concentration, whereas a more complex behaviour was exhibited by chlorophenols. It was found that adsorption of these compounds onto the surfactant-modified semiconductor particles facilitates their faster decomposition, but the competitive partition of substrates between adsorbed surfactant structures and micellar aggregates tends to limit the beneficial kinetic effects at higher amphiphile concentrations. The crucial influence of surfactant adsorption was clearly evidenced in some runs performed at pH 3. Relevant inhibition of chloride release from chlorophenols, observed in the presence of HTAB, indicates a higher persistence of reaction intermediates in the reaction media, suggesting the need for a careful investigation of surfactant effects on all the degradation steps of the process.
1. Following repeated daily whole-body exposure (3 h/day) of rats to atmospheres containing p-dichloro[14C]benzene (10000p.p.m.), or administration of oral or subcutaenous doses (250 mg/kg/day), 24-h tissue concn. of 14C were similar and did not increase after six days dosing, but tended to decrease. 2. After repeated daily atmospheric exposures or oral doses, highest concn. of 14C occurred in fat, kidneys, liver and lungs. Concn. declined rapidly to near or below limits of detection (less than 0.2 p.p.m.) in plasma and tissues at 5 days. After similar subcutaneous doses, tissue concn. declined more slowly. 3. During five days after repeated dosing, most excreted 14C (91-97%) was in the urine. Little was excreted in faeces or expired air. Excretion was more prolonged following subcutaneous administration. After single doses to bile duct-cannulated animals, 46-63% of the excreted 14C was in the bile during 24 h. 4. The pattern of metabolites in urine and bile was similar after each route of administration although there were quantitative differences. Urine extracts contained two major 14C-components, namely a sulphate and a glucuronide of 2,5-dichlorophenol, representing 46-54% and 31-34% of the urinary 14C respectively. Two minor components were identified by mass spectrometry as a dihydroxydichlorobenzene and a mercapturic acid of p-dichlorobenzene. 5. The glucuronide of 2,5-dichlorphenol was the major 14C component in bile (30-42%).
Background: Maternal urinary biomarkers are often used to assess fetal exposure to phenols and their precursors. Their effectiveness as a measure of exposure in epidemiological studies depends on their variability during pregnancy and their ability to accurately predict fetal exposure. oBjectives: We assessed the relationship between urinary and amniotic fluid concentrations of nine environmental phenols, and the reproducibility of urinary concentrations, among pregnant women. Methods: Seventy-one women referred for amniocentesis were included. Maternal urine was collected at the time of the amniocentesis appointment and on two subsequent occasions. Urine and amniotic fluid were analyzed for 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenols, bisphenol A, benzophenone-3, triclosan, and methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, and butylparabens using online solid phase extraction-high performance liquid chromatography-isotope dilution tandem mass spectrometry. results: Only benzophenone-3 and propylparaben were detectable in more than half of the amniotic fluid samples; for these phenols, concentrations in amniotic fluid and maternal urine collected on the same day were positively correlated (ρ = 0.53 and 0.32, respectively). Other phenols were detected infrequently in amniotic fluid (e.g., bisphenol A was detected in only two samples). 
Phenolic compounds are used in numerous consumer products such as cosmetics (parabens), sunscreens (benzophenone-3), antibacterial soaps (triclosan), and food packaging and polycarbonate plastics (bisphenol A). 2,5-Dichlorophenol is a metabolite of p-dichlorobenzene, a chemical used in mothballs and bathroom deodorizers. 2,4-Dichlorophenol is used primarily in the production of phenoxy acid herbicides (e.g., 2,4-diphenoxyacetic acid) and for the synthesis of pharmaceuticals and antiseptics. Exposure to these chemicals or their precursors is ubiquitous in the general population, including pregnant women (Casas et al. 2013; Wolff et al. 2008) . Metabolites of phenols have also been detected in amniotic fluid (Edlow et al. 2012; Engel et al. 2006; Yamada et al. 2002) and cord blood (Chou et al. 2011; Fenichel et al. 2012) , suggesting fetal exposure.
Certain environmental chemicals (e.g., phenols) are rapidly metabolized and excreted in urine after exposure. Thus, urinary concentrations are commonly used in epidemiological studies to estimate exposure to these chemicals. The extent to which concentrations in maternal urine reflect fetal exposure is uncertain. Alternative matrices, such as amniotic fluid, might provide a more accurate measure of direct fetal exposure. During pregnancy, the fetus swallows amniotic fluid, and fetal urine is one of the main sources of amniotic fluid in the second half of pregnancy (Modena and Fieni 2004; Underwood et al. 2005) . Thus, concentrations measured in this matrix might be a relevant dosimeter of fetal exposure. In humans, bisphenol A (Edlow et al. 2012; Engel et al. 2006; Ikezuki et al. 2002; Yamada et al. 2002) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (Bradman et al. 2003) have been detected in amniotic fluid collected from pregnant women receiving amniocentesis as part of their routine prenatal care. However, to our knowledge, no published study has evaluated human amniotic fluid concentrations of other prevalent environmental phenols, nor has there been a comparison of phenol biomarker concentrations in amniotic fluid with corresponding concentrations in maternal urine.
Diferrocenylethyne ( 1 ) was synthesized by metathesis of 1-ferrocenylprop-1-yne using various catalytic systems based on [Mo(CO) 6 ] (5 mole %) and a chlorophenol (30 mole %) in toluene. The yields varied for different chlorophenols; the best conversions were obtained with 2,5-dichlorophenol (66%) and 4-chlorophenol (55%). Alkyne 1 was further reduced to the known ( E )-1,2-diferrocenylethene and 1,2-diferrocenylethane, and its solid-state structure determined by single-crystal X-ray diffraction.
Background: The observed age of menarche has fallen, which may have important adverse social and health consequences. Increased exposure to endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs) has been associated with adverse reproductive outcomes. ::: ::: Objective: Our objective was to assess the relationship between EDC exposure and the age of menarche in adolescent girls. ::: ::: Methods: We used data from female participants 12–16 years of age who had completed the reproductive health questionnaire and laboratory examination for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) for years 2003–2008 (2005–2008 for analyses of phthalates and parabens). Exposures were assessed based on creatinine-corrected natural log urine concentrations of selected environmental chemicals and metabolites found in at least 75% of samples in our study sample. We used Cox proportional hazards analysis in SAS 9.2 survey procedures to estimate associations after accounting for censored data among participants who had not reached menarche. We evaluated body mass index (BMI; kilograms per meter squared), family income-to-poverty ratio, race/ethnicity, mother’s smoking status during pregnancy, and birth weight as potential confounders. ::: ::: Results: The weighted mean age of menarche was 12.0 years of age. Among 440 girls with both reproductive health and laboratory data, after accounting for BMI and race/ethnicity, we found that 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and summed environmental phenols (2,5-DCP and 2,4-DCP) were inversely associated with age of menarche [hazard ratios of 1.10; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.01, 1.19 and 1.09; 95% CI: 1.01, 1.19, respectively]. Other exposures (total parabens, bisphenol A, triclosan, benzophenone-3, total phthalates, and 2,4-DCP) were not significantly associated with age of menarche. ::: ::: Conclusions: Our findings suggest an association between 2,5-DCP, a potential EDC, and earlier age of menarche in the general U.S. population.
Objectives ::: ::: While dredging the river Elbe in the harbor of Hamburg, workers are potentially exposed to river silt aerosols containing organic compounds. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to determine the internal load of chlorophenols in exposed workers. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods ::: ::: Eighty-four exposed workers and eighty-four unexposed office workers were examined. Urinary samples were analyzed for dichlorophenols, trichlorophenols, tetrachlorophenols, and pentachlorophenol (PCP). ::: ::: ::: ::: Results ::: ::: For exposed workers, more than 2/3 of the urinary samples were above detection limit for 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4/3,4-dichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, and PCP. Harbor workers had significantly higher median levels of 2,5-dichlorophenol (0.6 vs. 0.4 µg/g creatinine) and PCP (1.4 vs. 1.0 µg/g creatinine) as compared to unexposed subjects. These differences remained statistically significant after adjustment for age, smoking habits, and fish consumption. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusion ::: ::: Harbor workers in the harbor of Hamburg have a statistically significant higher internal load of chlorophenols than the general population. However, the internal load is within the range of exposure reported from the general population. Therefore, even though chlorophenols are found in the river silt these exposures do not seem to be the major source of the internal load among workers in the harbor of Hamburg. Am. J. Ind. Med. 45:440–445, 2004. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Acid-base equilibria in supercritical water and alcohols are of great importance in controlling chemical processes in the high-temperature and high-pressure media. Recent advances in spectroscopic measurement of acid-base equilibria in supercritical water are reviewed together with those in conductmetric and potentiometric methods. I also present our recent study of acid-base equilibria in supercritical methanol using a flow-through apparatus and 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCP) as an indicator. It is explained how to determine the degree of dissociation of DCP in ambient to supercritical methanol from the absorption spectra at various concentrations of base.
Biomonitoring studies have shown that humans are exposed to numerous environmental chemicals. Previous work provides limited insights into the dynamic relationship between different chemicals within a population. The objective of this study is to develop an analytical method identifying exposure profiles of seven common environmental chemicals and determine how exposure profiles differ by sociodemographic groups and National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2003–2012 cycle year. We used recursive partition mixture modeling (RPMM) to define classes of the population with similar exposure profiles of lead, cadmium, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, bisphenol A (BPA), triclosan, and benzophenone-3 in individuals aged ≥6 years. Additionally, quasibinomial logistic regression was used to examine the association between each class and selected demographic characteristics. Eight exposure profiles were identified. Individuals who clustered together and had the highest chemical exposures were more likely to be older, to be Non-Hispanic Black (NHB) or Other Hispanic (OH), more likely to live below the poverty line, more likely to be male, and more likely to have participated in the earlier NHANES cycle (2003–2004). The developed method described the dynamic relationship between chemicals and shows that this relationship is different for subpopulations based on their sociodemographic characteristics.
A solid phase extraction coupled with high performance liquid chromatographic(SPE/HPLC) method was developed for the determination of nine halophenols,e.g.2,6-dichlorophenol,2,3-dichlorophenol,2,5-dichlorophenol,2,4-dichlorophenol,3,4-dichlorophenol,3,5-dichlorophenol,2,4,6-trichlorophenol,pentachlorophenol and bithionol,in cosmetics.The samples were dispersed with saturated sodium chloride solution,extracted with acetonitrile under ultrasonication,and cleaned up with HLB solid phase extraction.The separation of nine halophenols was carried out on a C8 column using methanol-acetonitrile-ammonium acetate buffer as mobile phase.The result indicated that the calibration curves of nine halophenols were linear between 1.0 mg/L and 50.0 mg/L,with correlation coefficients more than 0.999.The limits of detection were in the range of 0.3-0.6 mg/kg.The mean recoveries of nine halophenols at spiked levels of 2.0,4.0,20.0 mg/kg were in the range of 92%-105%,with RSDs(n=6) of 0.89%-3.1%.The method was sensitive,reproducible and accurate.
Paradichlorobenzene (PDB) is an aromatic compound found in several household insect repellents and deodorizers. Paradichlorobenzene may cause dependence and damage when inhaled or ingested. Prior cases of PDB neurotoxicity involved ingestion or inhalation of mothballs or occupational exposure. We report the first case of PDB neurotoxicity from chronic toilet bowl deodorizers ("toilet cake") sniffing. A 19-year-old woman, 4 weeks postpartum, presented with gradual mental status deterioration, lethargy, and general weakness for 2 weeks. On physical examination, the patient was found to have a strong odor of deodorizer and diffuse hyperpigmented skin lesions, with scratch marks in neck, axillae, trunk, and 4 limbs. She was alert but unable to communicate or follow commands. Ataxia, hyporeflexia, cogwheel rigidity, and decreased muscle tone were also noted. Laboratory tests revealed only normocytic anemia. A brain magnetic resonance imaging scan showed enhancement within the splenium of the corpus callosum. Postpartum depression, psychosis, and panhypopituitarism were excluded. Family members reported on further questioning that the patient was a habitual "toilet cake" sniffer for an unknown period. A urine test for 2,5-dichlorophenol (a PDB metabolite) level was 620 mg/L (3100 times higher than the average concentration with household exposure). Her clinical condition and body odor remained unchanged during the 30-day hospitalization and the skin findings improved.
In recent times, it has been shown that the microporous ETS-10 titanosilicate can be used as a shape-selective photocatalyst for the decomposition of aromatic molecules (Chem. Commun. 2001, 2131). Its actual use on practical grounds is however discouraged by its too low activity, when compared with that of TiO2 photocatalysts. In the present work, we show how an ad hoc mild treatment with HF enhances the activity of ETS-10 toward the photodegradation of large aromatic molecules that are unable to penetrate inside the zeolitic pores, such as 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene, and 2,3-dihydroxynaphthalene (DHN). The photoactivity of the acid-treated materials is comparable or even greater than that of the nonselective TiO2 catalyst. Moreover, the enhancement of the photoactivity is accompanied by a remarkable parallel increase of the shape selectivity, particularly toward DHN (kDHN/kP = 127, where P = phenol). A complete characterization (by means of X-ray diffraction, scann...
Objective To test cross-sectional associations between urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) with the prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), cancer, lung disease, thyroid problems and liver conditions. Methods Logistic regression was used to evaluate associations of urinary concentrations of 2,5-DCP and 2,4-DCP with prevalence of various medical conditions among 3617 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey participants from 2007–2008 and 2009–2010. ORs and 95% CIs for each disease were estimated. All regression models were adjusted for urinary creatinine. Results We observed a monotonically increasing association between quartiles of 2,5-DCP and prevalence of CVD. After adjustment for sociodemographic and lifestyle characteristics, participants with the highest versus lowest quartile of urinary 2,5-DCP had an OR=1.84 (95% CI 1.26 to 2.70) (p linear trend=0.006). The association was similar with further adjustment for established clinical CVD risk factors. Higher 2,5-DCP was also associated with prevalence of all cancers combined (OR Q4 vs Q1 =1.50 (95% CI 1.00 to 2.26); p trend=0.05) and, in exploratory analyses, with gynaecological cancers (OR Q4 vs Q1 =4.15 (95% CI 1.51 to 11.40; p trend=0.01)). No associations were detected between 2,5-DCP and lung diseases, thyroid problems or liver conditions, nor between 2,4-DCP and prevalent disease. Conclusion In this nationally representative study, higher urinary 2,5-DCP concentrations were associated with greater prevalence of CVD and all cancers combined. Further examination may be warranted to assess whether chronic exposure to 2,5-DCP is associated with incidence of adverse health outcomes.
A γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacterium, Sphingomonas sp. MM-1, was isolated from soil contaminated with HCH isomers. Cultivation of MM-1 in the presence of γ-HCH led to the detection of five γ-HCH metabolites, γ-pentachlorocyclohexene, 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, strongly suggesting that MM-1 has the lin genes for γ-HCH degradation originally identified in the well-studied γ-HCH-degrading strain Sphingobium japonicum UT26. Southern blot, PCR amplification, and sequencing analyses indicated that MM-1 has seven lin genes for the conversion of γ-HCH to β-ketoadipate (six structural genes, linA to linF, and one regulatory gene, linR). MM-1 carried four plasmids, of 200, 50, 40, and 30 kb. Southern blot analysis revealed that all seven lin genes were dispersed across three of the four plasmids, and that IS6100, often found close to the lin genes, was present on all four plasmids.
A -hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacterium, Sphingomonas sp. MM-1, was isolated from soil contaminated with HCH isomers. Cultivation of MM-1 in the presence of -HCH led to the detection of five -HCH metabolites, -pentachlorocyclohexene, 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, strongly suggesting that MM-1 has the lin genes for -HCH degradation originally identified in the wellstudied -HCH-degrading strain Sphingobium japonicum UT26. Southern blot, PCR amplification, and sequencing analyses indicated that MM-1 has seven lin genes for the conversion of -HCH to -ketoadipate (six structural genes, linA to linF, and one regulatory gene, linR). MM-1 carried four plasmids, of 200, 50, 40, and 30 kb. Southern blot analysis revealed that all seven lin genes were dispersed across three of the four plasmids, and that IS6100, often found close to the lin genes, was present on all four plasmids.
The invention discloses a synthetic method for 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid, which sequentially comprises the following steps: 1) salifying 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2) performing carboxylation, and 3) performing refinement, wherein according to Step 2), a 2,5-dichlorophenol saline solution is transferred into a high-pressure reactor, a catalyst is added, CO2 is supplied for high-pressure carboxylation reaction, a reaction product containing 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid salt is obtained, and the catalyst is potassium chloride; and according to Step 3), an alkaline solution is added after the reaction product is cooled to a room temperature, pH is adjusted to 11-13, an aqueous phase is obtained after layering, an acid solution is added to the aqueous phase, the pH is adjusted to 1-3, and after vapor distillation is performed and 2,5-dichlorophenol is recovered, suction filtration and drying are performed, and 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid is obtained. 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzoic acid synthesized with the method has the characteristics of low cost and higher yield.
Abstract Breast milk is one possible route of exposure to environmental chemicals, including phenols and chlorinated organic chemicals for breast-fed infants. We developed a highly sensitive method of analyzing breast milk for triclocarban (3,4,4′-trichlorocarbanilide) and eight phenolic compounds: bisphenol A (BPA), 4-tert-octylphenol (4-tOP), ortho-phenylphenol (OPP), 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, and 2-hydroxy-4-metoxybenzophenone (BP-3). The method includes adding a solution containing a stable isotope of each chemical, enzymatic hydrolysis of the conjugated chemicals in the milk, and on-line solid-phase extraction coupled with high performance liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry. It can also be used to measure the free (unconjugated) species by omitting the enzymatic deconjugation step. The method, validated using pooled breast milk samples, has inter-day coefficient of variations ranging from 4.8 to 18.9% for most analytes, and spiked recoveries generally about 100%. Detection limits for most analytes are below 1 ng/mL in 100 μL of breast milk. We tested the usefulness of the method by measuring concentrations of these nine compounds in 20 breast milk samples. BPA, OPP, and BP-3 were detected in more than 60% of the samples tested. The free species of these compounds appear to be most prevalent in milk.
Breast milk is one possible route of exposure to environmental chemicals, including phenols and chlorinated organic chemicals for breast-fed infants. We developed a highly sensitive method of analyzing breast milk for triclocarban (3,4,4 -trichlorocarbanilide) and eight phenolic compounds: bisphenol A (BPA), 4-tert-octylphenol (4-tOP), ortho-phenylphenol (OPP), 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, and 2-hydroxy-4-metoxybenzophenone (BP-3). The method includes adding a solution containing a stable isotope of each chemical, enzymatic hydrolysis of the conjugated chemicals in the milk, and on-line solid-phase extraction coupled with high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. It can also be used to measure the free (unconjugated) species by omitting the enzymatic deconjugation step. The method, validated using pooled breast milk samples, has inter-day coefficient of variations ranging from 4.8 to 18.9% for most analytes, and spiked recoveries generally about 100%. Detection limits for most analytes are below 1 ng/mL in 100 L of breast milk. We tested the usefulness of the method by measuring concentrations of these nine compounds in 20 breast milk samples. BPA, OPP, and BP-3 were detected in more than 60% of the samples tested. The free species of these compounds appear to be most prevalent in milk.
Abstract The genotoxic potential of 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB) has been extensively evaluated in vitro and in vivo. The majority of the studies demonstrated the absence of a genotoxic potential for 1,4-DCB. At variance are a bone marrow micronucleus test (MNT) after intraperitoneal (i.p.) treatment of NMRI mice [Mohtashamipur et al., Mutagenesis 2 (1987) 111–113] and a gene mutation assay on mouse lymphoma cells [McGregor et al., Environ. Mol. Mutagen. 12 (1988) 85–145]. Therefore, we investigated 1,4-DCB and its main metabolite 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) for both endpoints. In an MNT, male and female NMRI mice were treated orally with single doses of 2500 mg/kg 1,4-DCB and 1500 mg/kg 2,5-DCP, respectively. Smears were prepared 24, 48 and 72 h thereafter. No induction of micronuclei was detected for both compounds. Also under the conditions of Mohtashamipur et al. (1987), intraperitoneal treatments of male and female mice with 2 × 177.5 and 2 × 355 mg/kg 1,4-DCB failed to induce micronuclei. In addition, CHO/HPRT-gene mutation tests with 1,4-DCB and 2,5-DCP yielded negative results for both compounds with and without metabolic activation system. Therefore, 1,4-DCB and 2,5-DCP are considered to be non-mutagenic in these test systems.
Abstract In this paper an analytical method is described for the capillary gas chromatographic determination, after derivitization, of 19 individual chlorophenols in river sediment. The minimum detectable amounts are for monochlorophenols 10 μg kg −1 , dichlorophenols 0.5 μg kg −1 , trichlorophenols 0.2 μg kg −1 and for tetra- and pentachlorophenols 0.1 μg kg −1 . The results of a monitoring program in the Rhine River and its tributaries and other Dutch surface waters with respect to these compounds are presented. 2,5-Dichlorophenol, 2,3,5- and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,3,4,5- and 2,3,4,6-tetrachlorophenol and pentachlorophenol had a frequency of occurrence of 100% in sediment samples from Lake Ketelmeer, which is a deposition area for Rhine River sediment. The highest concentrations of chlorophenols were found in the Nieuwe Maas River near Rotterdam, a heavily industrialized area.
2,6-Dichloroaniline was reacted with 2,5-dichlorophenol in the presence of isoamyl nitrite to give a mixture of chlorinated biphenylols which were purified by thin-layer chromatography. The resulting products were cyclized to give 1,4,9-trichlorodibenzofuran (purity > 98%) which was converted into 1,4,9-[3H3]-dibenzofuran by catalytic chlorinetritium exchange. The [3H]-dibenzofuran was chlorinated in chloroform solution and the crude chlorination products were separated by preparative HPLC to give [3H]-2,3,7,8-TCDF, specific activity, 57 Ci/mmol. The binding of [3H]-2,3,7,8-TCDF to the cytosolic Ah receptor resembles that of [3H]-TCDD. The receptor binding affinity as determined from the Scatchard plot is slightly less for [3H]-TCDF (Kd=0.95 nm) than for [3H]-TCDD (Kd=0.60 nM). The mechanism of binding each radioligand to the Ah receptor is similar and occurs in the absence of detectable positive cooperativity. However, for quantification, the use of [3H]-TCDF is distinctly advantageous over [3H]-TCDD because the ease of dissociation of the [3H]-TCDF-Ah receptor complex is much greater than that of the [3H]-TCDD-Ah receptor complex. Because of the ease of reversibility of binding, [3H]-TCDF appears to be the superior radioligand for the invitro characterization of the Ah receptor.
A new synthesis of 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic add (2,4,5-T) is described. ::: ::: ::: ::: A mixture of the insecticidally inactive α- and β-isomers of hexachlorocyclohexane, obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of the γ-isomer is converted into 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene. After converting the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene into 2,5-dichlorophenol, the latter is reacted with monochloroacetic add to 2,5-dichlorophenoxyacetic add and chlorinated into 2,4,5-T. The overall yield of 2,4,5-T calculated on H.C.H. is ca. 40-50%.
STUDY QUESTION ::: Are in-utero or peripubertal exposures to phthalates, parabens and other phenols found in personal care products associated with timing of pubertal onset in boys and girls? ::: ::: ::: SUMMARY ANSWER ::: We found some associations of altered pubertal timing in girls, but little evidence in boys. ::: ::: ::: WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY ::: Certain chemicals in personal care and consumer products, including low molecular weight phthalates, parabens and phenols, or their precursors, are associated with altered pubertal timing in animal studies. ::: ::: ::: STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION ::: Data were from the Center for the Health Assessment of Mothers and Children of Salinas (CHAMACOS) longitudinal cohort study which followed 338 children in the Salinas Valley, California, from before birth to adolescence. ::: ::: ::: PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS ::: Pregnant women were enrolled in 1999-2000. Mothers were mostly Latina, living below the federal poverty threshold and without a high school diploma. We measured concentrations of three phthalate metabolites (monoethyl phthalate [MEP], mono-n-butyl phthalate and mono-isobutyl phthalate), methyl and propyl paraben and four other phenols (triclosan, benzophenone-3 and 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol) in urine collected from mothers during pregnancy and from children at age 9. Pubertal timing was assessed among 179 girls and 159 boys every 9 months between ages 9 and 13 using clinical Tanner staging. Accelerated failure time models were used to obtain mean shifts of pubertal timing associated with concentrations of prenatal and peripubertal biomarkers. ::: ::: ::: MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE ::: In girls, we observed earlier onset of pubic hair development with prenatal urinary MEP concentrations and earlier menarche with prenatal triclosan and 2,4-dichlorophenol concentrations. Regarding peripubertal biomarkers, we observed: earlier breast development, pubic hair development and menarche with methyl paraben; earlier menarche with propyl paraben; and later pubic hair development with 2,5-dichlorophenol. In boys, we observed no associations with prenatal urinary biomarker concentrations and only one association with peripubertal concentrations: earlier genital development with propyl paraben. ::: ::: ::: LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION ::: These chemicals are quickly metabolized and one to two urinary measurements per developmental point may not accurately reflect usual exposure. Associations of peripubertal measurements with parabens may reflect reverse causality: children going through puberty early may be more likely to use personal care products. The study population was limited to Latino children of low socioeconomic status living in a farmworker community and may not be widely generalizable. ::: ::: ::: WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS ::: This study contributes to a growing literature that suggests that exposure to certain endocrine disrupting chemicals may impact timing of puberty in children. ::: ::: ::: STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S) ::: This study was funded by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences and the US Environmental Protection Agency. The authors declare no conflicts of interest. ::: ::: ::: TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER ::: N/A.
Pregnant women were enrolled in 1999-2000. Mothers were mostly Latina, living below the federal poverty threshold and without a high school diploma. We measured concentrations of three phthalate metabolites (monoethyl phthalate [MEP], mono-n-butyl phthalate and mono-isobutyl phthalate), methyl and propyl paraben and four other phenols (triclosan, benzophenone-3 and 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol) in urine collected from mothers during pregnancy and from children at age 9. Pubertal timing was assessed among 179 girls and 159 boys every 9 months between ages 9 and 13 using clinical Tanner staging. Accelerated failure time models were used to obtain mean shifts of pubertal timing associated with concentrations of prenatal and peripubertal biomarkers.
In girls, we observed earlier onset of pubic hair development with prenatal urinary MEP concentrations and earlier menarche with prenatal triclosan and 2,4-dichlorophenol concentrations. Regarding peripubertal biomarkers, we observed: earlier breast development, pubic hair development and menarche with methyl paraben; earlier menarche with propyl paraben; and later pubic hair development with 2,5-dichlorophenol. In boys, we observed no associations with prenatal urinary biomarker concentrations and only one association with peripubertal concentrations: earlier genital development with propyl paraben.
Parabens, including methyl and propyl paraben, are commonly used as preservatives in cosmetics (Guo and Kannan, 2013) and demonstrate weak estrogenic properties (Boberg et al., 2010) , which induce changes in pubertal timing in female rats (Vo et al., 2010) . Environmental phenols used in personal care products include triclosan, an antibacterial agent that can be used in hand soap and some toothpaste (Dann and Hontela, 2011) , and benzophenone-3, a sunscreen agent that is also added to cosmetics such as lipsticks, hairsprays, shampoos and skin lotions to increase the products' durability (Han et al., 2016) . In animal studies, triclosan has been found to have estrogenic potency (Stoker et al., 2010) which can disrupt LH, FSH and testosterone secretion (Kumar et al., 2008) , and can alter pubertal timing in female rats (Rodriguez and Sanchez, 2010; Stoker et al., 2010) . Research on benzophenone-3 is more limited, but it has exhibited weak estrogenic properties in vitro and in animal studies (Schlumpf et al., 2001) . Other environmental phenols include 2,4-dichlorophenol, a photo-degradation product of triclosan (Canosa et al., 2005) , which is also an intermediate in the manufacturing of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, a metabolite of 1,4-dichlorobenzene, which is used in moth balls and room and toilet deodorizers (Ye et al., 2014) .
Exposure to these phthalates, parabens, and phenols is widespread. In the United States, >96% of women participating in the nationally representative National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) had detectable concentrations of DEP, DnBP or DiBP metabolites in their urine (Zota et al., 2014) . Methyl and propyl parabens were found in >90% of individuals (Calafat et al., 2010) , triclosan in 75% (Calafat et al., 2008b) , benzophenone-3 in 97% (Calafat et al., 2008a) , and 2,4-dichlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol in >80% (Ye et al., 2014) of women.
This research investigates the kinetic parameters associated with the ozonation of 2,3-, 2,4-, and 2,5-dichlorophenols (DCPs) in aqueous solutions at 25°C. The overall ozonation kinetics of each DCP was found to be first order with respect to each reactant concentration (i.e., DCP and ozone). Among the three isomers studied, the ozonation of 2,5-DCP was the fastest with the overall rate constant varying from 68,500 to 7,750,000 M−1 s−1 within a pH range of 2.1 to 5.0. The overall rate constant increased with pH because of the increase in the degree of dissociation of the DCP molecules to dichlorophenoxide ions. The electrophilic addition of ozone at the ortho and para positions of the molecular and ionic forms of the DCPs was postulated to be the likely mechanism for the degradation of the DCPs to chlorobenzenediols, monochlorophenols, chlorocyclohexadienediones, ethylacetate, heptanone, carboxylic acids, and other by-products that were detected using gas chromatograph/mass spectrometry analysis.
As part of validation processes of in vitro toxicity assays for the risk assessment of environmental hazards, we applied an in vitro toxicity test using two human cell lines, neuroblastoma NB-1 cells and glioblastoma U-87 MG cells, to the assessment of organochlorine compounds detected in the water environment. The in vitro toxicity assay using NB-1 cells was calibrated by testing reference chemicals proposed by MEIC (Multicenter Evaluation of In Vitro Cytotoxicity), an international program for the validation of in vitro cytotoxicity assays.Beforehand, an assay using cells in frozen stock without subcultivation was examined by comparing IC50 values with the ordinary assay using subcultured cells. IC50 values for MEIC reference chemicals from the former assay showed good correlation with those from the latter assay, suggesting that the assay using cells in frozen stock can he used at least for the assessment of basal cytotoxicity.IC50 values for ten organochlorine compounds frequently detected in the sediment samples from contaminated rivers, p-chloroaniline, 3,4-dichloroaniline, p-dichlorohenzene, o-dichlorobenzene, Tris (2-chloroethyl)-phosphate, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichloroanisol, Triclosan and Triclocarban, were obtained with the in vitro assays and compared with their LD50 values in rats. No significant correlation, however, was seen between the IC50 and LD50 values, indicating that further improvement of in vitro toxicity assays is necessary for the application to the risk assessment of environmental hazards.
BACKGROUND ::: Understanding important sources and pathways of exposure to common chemicals known or suspected to impact human health is critical to eliminate or reduce the exposure. This is particularly important in areas such as Puerto Rico, where residents have higher exposures to numerous chemicals, as well as higher rates of many adverse health outcomes, compared to the mainland US. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: The aim of this study was to assess distributions, time trends, and predictors of urinary triclocarban, phenol, and paraben biomarkers measured at multiple times during pregnancy among women living in Northern Puerto Rico. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We recruited 1003 pregnant women between years 2010 and 2016 from prenatal clinics and collected urine samples and questionnaire data on personal care product use at up to three separate visits, between 16 and 28 weeks gestation. Urine samples were analyzed for triclocarban, seven phenols and four parabens: 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, benzophenone-3, bisphenol A (BPA), bisphenol S (BPS), bisphenol F, triclosan, butylparaben, ethylparaben, methylparaben, and propylparaben. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Detectable triclocarban, phenol and paraben concentrations among pregnant women were prevalent and tended to be higher than levels measured in women of reproductive age from the general US population, especially triclocarban, which had a median concentration 37 times higher in Puerto Rico participants (2.6 vs 0.07 ng/mL). A decreasing temporal trend was statistically significant for urine concentrations of BPA during the study period, while the BPA substitute BPS showed an increasing temporal trend. Significant and positive associations were found between biomarker concentrations with the products use in the past 48-h (soap, sunscreen, lotion, cosmetics). There was an increasing trend of triclocarban/triclosan urinary concentrations with increased concentrations of triclocarban/triclosan listed as the active ingredient in the bar soap/liquid soap products reported being used. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Our results suggest several potential exposure sources to triclocarban, phenols, and parabens in this population and may help inform targeted approaches to reduce exposure.
3,6-Dichlorosalicylic acid is a kind of important pesticide intermediate. It is also a key intermediate for production of herbicide dicamba. The route to synthesize the 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid is determined. The cheap and easy gained 2,5-dichloronitrobenzene were choosed as initial raw materials. The intermediate 2,5-dichlorophenol was obtained via the hydrazine hydrate reduction and the diazotization reaction. Then the target product 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid is obtained via carboxylation reaction by high temperature and pressure. The key reaction factors are investigated through single factor experiments,and optimum condition is obtained. The yield( calculated by 2,5-dichloronitrobenzene) and the purity of 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid is 65. 8% and99. 24%,respectively,and quality satisfies the commercial requirement. The synthetic method is simple and economic,and the target product has high purity and easy separated. The structure of 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid was confirmed via IR and1 HNMR.
Abstract Chlorophenols (CPs) are used in the production of pesticides and preservatives. Although human exposure to CPs has been known for years, current exposure levels to these chemicals in Asian countries are not known. In this study, we analyzed concentrations of eight CPs in 300 human urine samples collected from nine countries. Of these CPs, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol were found at the highest median concentrations (median for all nine countries: 1.78 and 0.34 ng/mL, respectively). Pentachlorophenol was found in 59% of the samples analyzed at a median concentration of 0.07 ng/mL. Urine samples from Japan had the highest concentration of total CPs (median: 16.7 ng/mL) with 2,5-dichlorophenol accounting for 93.1% of the total concentration. The estimated daily intake (DI) for precursors of dichlorophenols varied widely, but several samples showed values higher than the acceptable DI recommended by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). These results suggest that CP exposure, especially to dichlorophenols, is prevalent in several countries, particularly in Asia, suggesting a pressing need for further assessment of the global sources and potential health effects of these chemicals.
A method for the determination of trace amount of dichlorophenol isomers in urine samples using the combination of liquid-phase hollow fiber microextraction (LPME-HF) with gas chromatography-negative chemical ionization mass spectrometry (GC-NCI-MS) has been demonstrated. The method has been optimized with respect to several parameters including the effects of negative chemical ionization (NCI) reagent pressure, the hollow fiber length, extraction time, stirring rate, sample pH and salt concentration for the determination of dichlorophenol isomers in water. The correlation coefficient (r2) of the calibration curves for 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol, 3,5-dichlorophenol and 3,4-dichlorophenol were 0.988, 0.981, 0.985, 0.971 and 0.994, respectively. The average recovery rates for 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol, 3,5-dichlorophenol and 3,4-dichlorophenol were 0.97, 0.93, 0.96, 0.95 and 0.95, respectively (n=3 for each dichlorophenol) indicate that the methodology is feasible for the determination of trace amounts of dichlorophenol isomers in water and urine samples. Limits of detection (LOD) have been found to be in the range of 5-20 ng/ml. In addition, differentiation of the five dichlorophenol isomers is an easy task using the current approach of combining LPME-HF with NCI-GC-MS technique since they exhibit different NCI spectra.
Abstract The interaction of phenolic compounds, phenol (PhOH); 2-chlorophenol (2-Cl-PhOH); 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCPhOH); 2,6-dimethylphenol (2,6-DMPhOH); and 4-bromo-2,6-dimethylphenol (4-Br-2,6-DMPhOH), in their aoionic forms with cetyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTAC) micelles was studied. The concentration of phenoxide ions in the micellar pseudophase was measured from the observed absorbance changes upon the addition of detergent to an alkaline aqueous solution. The luminescence quenching of tris(2,2′bipyridine)ruthenium(II) dichloride was used to measure the concentration of phenoxide ions in the intramicellar aqueous pseudophase for 2,6-DMPhOH and 4-Br-2,6-DMPhOH. To apply this method, two different series of quenching experiments were carried out in which the quencher concentration and the CTAC concentration were either varied or fixed. The results can be interpreted in terms of binding to a single class of independent binding sites. The site-binding constants ( K b ), their respective site numbers per micellized detergent ( p ), and the critical micelle concentration of the detergent in the presence of the substrates were obtained.
Abstract γ-1,3,4,5,6-Pentachlorocyclohexa-1-ene (γ-PCCH), 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) were identified as aerobic initial degradation products of γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) by Pseudomonas paucimobilis UT26. The dehydrochlorination of γ-HCH to γ-PCCH was thought to occur stereoselectively at a trans and diaxial pair of hydrogen and chlorine (TD-pair) by P. paucimobilis UT26. Conformational analysis with molecular orbital calculations revealed that γ-PCCH also possesses a TD-pair of 5-position hydrogen and 6-position chlorine in its cyclohexene ring. Lineweaver-Burk plot suggested that γ-PCCH was a specific competitive inhibitor of the dehydrochlorination of γ-HCH. Considering these results, γ-PCCH was suggested to be dehydrochlorinated in a similar way to γ-HCH to yield an unidentified intermediate, 1,3,4,6-tetrachlorocyclohexa-1,4-diene (1,4-TCDN). 1,2,4-TCB and 2,5-DCP were considered to be produced from 1,4-TCDN by different reaction routes: 1,2,4-TCB was through a non-enzymatic dehydrochlorinative rearrangement of 1,4-TCDN and 2,5-DCP was through a similar rearrangement of 2,4,5-trichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1-ol (2,4,5-DNOL), another unidentified intermediate from 1,4-TCDN.
major metabolites are the glucuronide and sulfate conjugates of 2,5-dichlorophenol (Azouz et al., 1955; Hawkins et al, 1980; Klos and Dekant, 1994) . Human hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes which can metabolize DCB to 2,5-dichlorophenol include CYP1A2 and CYP2E1 (Bogaards et al, 1995) . Studies into the acute toxicity of DCB and its isomers have demonstrated that 1,2-dichlorobenzene is more toxic to rat and mouse liver and to rat kidney than 1,3-dichlorobenzene and DCB (Allis et al, 1992; Valentovic et al., 1993; Umemura et al., 1996) .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Exposures to environmental chemicals are ubiquitous in the US. Little is known about how neighborhood factors contribute to exposures. METHODS: Growing Up Healthy is a prospective cohort study of environmental exposures and growth and development among Hispanic and African American children ( n = 506) in New York City. We sought to determine associations between neighborhood-level factors (eg, housing type, school, time spent indoors versus outdoors) and urinary biomarkers of chemical exposures suspected to be associated with these characteristics (cotinine, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and phthalate metabolites) adjusted by age, sex, race, and caregiver education and language. RESULTS: Urinary cotinine concentrations revealed a prevalent exposure to secondhand smoke; children living in public housing had higher concentrations than those in private housing. In homes with 1 smoker versus none, we found significant differences in urinary cotinine concentrations by housing, although not in homes with 2 or more smokers. Children in charter or public schools had higher urinary cotinine concentrations than those in private schools. School type was associated with exposures to both low- and high-molecular-weight phthalates, and concentrations of both exposure biomarkers were higher for children attending public versus private school. 2,5-Dichlorophenol concentrations declined from 2004 to 2007 ( P = .038) and were higher among charter school children. CONCLUSIONS: Housing and school type are associated with chemical exposures in this minority, inner city population. Understanding the role of neighborhood on environmental exposures can lead to targeted community-level interventions, with the goal of reducing environmental chemical exposures disproportionately seen in urban minority communities.
Prenatal pesticide exposures may adversely affect children's health. However, exposure and health research is hampered by the lack of reliable fetal exposure data. No studies have been published that report measurements of commonly used nonpersistent pesticides in human amniotic fluid, although recent studies of pesticides in urine from pregnant women and in meconium indicate that fetuses are exposed to these chemicals. Amniotic fluid collected during amniocentesis is the only medium available to characterize direct fetal exposures early in pregnancy (approximately 18 weeks of gestation). As a first step in validating this exposure biomarker, we collected 100 amniotic fluid samples slated for disposal and evaluated analytical methods to measure organophosphate and carbamate pesticides and metabolites, synthetic pyrethroid metabolites, herbicides, and chlorinated phenolic compounds. The following six phenols were detected (detection frequency): 1- and 2-naphthol (70%), 2,5-dichlorophenol (55%), carbofuranphenol (5%), ortho-phenylphenol (30%), and pentachlorophenol (15%), with geometric mean concentrations of 0.72, 0.39, 0.12, 0.13, and 0.23 microg/L, respectively, for positive values. The organophosphate metabolites diethylphosphate and dimethylphosphate were detected in two (10%) samples, and dimethylthiophosphate was detected in one (5%) sample, with geometric mean concentrations of 0.31, 0.32, and 0.43 microg/L, respectively, for positive values. These levels are low compared with levels reported in urine, blood, and meconium in other studies, but indicate direct exposures to the young fetus, possibly during critical periods of development. Results of this pilot study suggest that amniotic fluid offers a unique opportunity to investigate fetal exposures and health risks.
Multivariate adjusted concentrations of creatinine-corrected exposure biomarkers (geometric means) are presented in Table 4 according to race/ethnicity, geographic site, BMI, and season of collection; included are the 20 analytes that were detected in at least 60% of samples. Differences in the medians (unadjusted) by characteristics are shown in the Supplemental Material, Compared with the unadjusted values, there were fewer significant associations in the multivariate models for race (5 vs. 8), site (3 vs. 9), and season (1 vs. 6). Enterolactone and BPA differed significantly with regard to BMI (< 85th percentile vs. ≥ 85th percentile). The adjusted geometric means of three phthalate metabolites varied by race/ethnicity, with whites having lower concentrations of mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP) and monoethyl phthalate (MEP) but higher mono(3-carboxypropyl) phthalate (MCPP). Among the phenols, 2,5-dichlorophenol (25DCP) was higher in blacks than whites, and BP3 was higher in whites. O-Desmethylangolensin (O-DMA), 25DCP, and 2,4-dichlorophenol (24DCP) differed across the three study sites. BP3 was higher in samples collected in summer. Patterns by race and season for MEHP, MEP, MCPP, 25DCP, and 24DCP remained the same if the geometric means were adjusted for age, race, BMI, and season but not for site. When the correlation between age as a continuous variable and each analyte was examined, it was significantly associated only with equol (micrograms equol/grams creatinine; r S -0.26, p = 0.013). In the multivariate model for equol [ln, micrograms per gram creatinine], the beta for age (years) was -0.44 (p = 0.029, adjusted for race/ethnicity, geographic site, BMI, and season of collection).
Pseudomonas sp. strain JS150 was isolated as a nonencapsulated variant of Pseudomonas sp. strain JS1 that contains the genes for the degradative pathways of a wide range of substituted aromatic compounds. Pseudomonas sp. strain JS150 grew on phenol, ethylbenzene, toluene, benzene, naphthalene, benzoate, p-hydroxybenzoate, salicylate, chlorobenzene, and several 1,4-dihalogenated benzenes. We designed experiments to determine the conditions required for induction of the individual pathways and to determine whether multiple substrates could be biodegraded simultaneously. Oxygen consumption studies with whole cells and enzyme assays with cell extracts showed that the enzymes of the meta, ortho, and modified ortho cleavage pathways can be induced in strain JS150. Strain JS150 contains a nonspecific toluene dioxygenase with a substrate range similar to that found in strains of Pseudomonas putida. The presence of the dioxygenase along with multiple pathways for metabolism of substituted catechols allows facile extension of the growth range by spontaneous mutation and degradation of mixtures of substituted benzenes and phenols. Chlorobenzene-grown cells of strain JS150 degraded mixtures of chlorobenzene, benzene, toluene, naphthalene, trichloroethylene, and 1,2- and 1,4-dichlorobenzenes in continuous culture. Under similar conditions, phenol-grown cells degraded a mixture of phenol, 2-chloro-, 3-chloro, and 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2-methyl- and 3-methylphenol. These results indicate that induction of appropriate biodegradative pathways in strain JS150 permits the biodegradation of complex mixtures of aromatic compounds.
Field-grown plants were treated at the early tillering stage with leptophos (0-[4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl] O -methyl phenylphosphonothioate) EC, 1970 formulation, at 0.56 and 1.12 kg Al/ha. Recoveries from fortified plant samples ranged from 70 to 102% for leptophos, from 51 to 99% for its oxygen analogue ( 0 -[4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl] O -methyl rhenylphosphonate), and from 68 to 97% for its pheno (4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenol). Straw harvested 63 days posttreatment contained 0.07 ppm or less leptophos, 0.01 ppm or less of the phenol, and the oxygen analogue was not detectable (<0.02 ppm). Residues were not detected in the wheat kernels. The leptophos residue was diluted by plant growth, but the main disappearance of leptophos appeared to be due to degradation or physical losses, or to both.
High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has been applied to the separation and determination of o-chlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 3,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol in water samples after prior derivatization with 4-aminoantipyrine. These substances are the phenolic decomposition products of the phenoxy-alkanoic acid herbicides: 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4-dichlorophenoxybutyric acid (2,4-DB), and 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T). An RP-C18 column was used, with gradient elution starting at 50/50 and changing to 70/30 methanol/water (v/v) after 24 min. Detection was carried out at 470 nm where the 4-aminoantipyrilquinonimine derivatives show maximum absorbance. The method was linear over a concentration range of 5–10,000 ppb phenol in the original water sample. By using an enrichment step a detection limit of 2 ppb phenol could be approached. The method was used to study the degree of degradation of the phenoxy acids to phenols under different conditions of temperature, pH, and UV irradiation.
BACKGROUND: Phenols and phthalates may have immunomodulatory and proinflammatory effects and thereby adversely affect respiratory health. OBJECTIVE: We estimated the associations between gestational exposure to select phthalates and phenols and respiratory health in boys. METHODS: Among 587 pregnant women from the EDEN (Etude des Déterminants pré et post natals du développement et de la santé de l'Enfant) cohort who delivered a boy, 9 phenols and 11 phthalates metabolites were quantified in spot pregnancy urine samples. Respiratory outcomes were followed up by questionnaires until age 5, when forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV 1 ) was measured by spirometry. Adjusted associations of urinary metabolites log-transformed concentrations with respiratory outcomes and FEV 1 in percent predicted (FEV 1 %) were estimated by survival and linear regression models, respectively. RESULTS: No phenol or phthalate metabolite exhibited clear deleterious associations simultaneously with several respiratory outcomes. Ethyl-paraben was associated with increased asthma rate [hazard rate ðHRÞ = 1:10; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.00, 1.21] and tended to be negatively associated with FEV 1 % (beta = − 0:59; 95% CI: −1:24, 0.05); bisphenol A tended to be associated with increased rates of asthma diagnosis (HR = 1:23; 95% CI: 0.97, 1.55) and bronchiolitis/bronchitis (HR = 1:13; 95% CI: 0.99, 1.30). Isolated trends for deleterious associations were also observed between 2,5-dichlorophenol and wheezing, and between monocarboxynonyl phthalate, a metabolite of di-isodecyl phthalate (DIDP), and wheezing. CONCLUSION: Ethyl-paraben, bisphenol A, 2,5-dichlorophenol, and DIDP tended to be associated with altered respiratory health, with ethyl-paraben and bisphenol A exhibiting some consistency across respiratory outcomes. The trends between bisphenol A pregnancy level and increased asthma and bronchiolitis/bronchitis rates in childhood were consistent with a previous cohort study. https://doi
In conclusion, our prospective study relying on respiratory outcomes and pulmonary function tests showed possible adverse associations between prenatal urinary concentrations of 2,5-dichlorophenol, ethyl-paraben, bisphenol A, and DIDP biomarkers and respiratory health in boys until age 5 y, with ethylparaben and bisphenol A exhibiting some consistency across respiratory outcomes. The associations of bisphenol A pregnancy level with asthma diagnosis and bronchiolitis/bronchitis have been previously reported in a cohort study among boys and girls (Gascon et al. 2015) . Our results add to an emerging literature on respiratory health impacts of early exposure to several phenols and phthalates.
Biomonitoring, or measuring levels of contaminants and their metabolites in human biological samples, can tell researchers a good deal about the environmental agents to which populations are exposed.1 This information can help identify human health risks associated with environmental exposures, but the accuracy of conclusions hinges on the correct interpretation of the data.2,3,4 A new study in EHP highlights a potential source of bias in estimating exposures on the basis of urine samples and suggests a possible means to control for it.2 ::: ::: The study used data collected through the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), an ongoing program that includes biomonitoring of a nationally representative segment of the U.S. general population.5 Participants undergo physical examination, provide biological samples such as blood and urine for laboratory testing, and complete interviews regarding health, lifestyle, socioeconomic status, and other variables. NHANES data are then available for analysis by various research groups for the general purpose of evaluating and improving public health. ::: ::: ::: ::: The findings from a new study may enable researchers to more accurately assess the significance of chemical concentrations in biological samples. ::: ::: ::: ::: In NHANES, as well as in biomonitoring studies in general, urine is one of the most commonly used biological specimens.4 Sample collection is noninvasive, and laboratory analysis can quantify specific environmental contaminants in the sample. However, various factors such as hydration status and physiological differences among individuals can introduce uncertainty when estimating actual exposures from these measurements. For instance, as a result of variables such as these, the same exposure could result in different concentrations of metabolite in two different people’s urine. Linking estimated exposures to specific health outcomes represents an additional layer of uncertainty.2,3 ::: ::: The authors of the current study used data from the 2009–2010 and 2011–2012 NHANES cycles to assess patterns in the relationship between urinary flow rate (UFR) and body weight–adjusted urinary flow rate (UFRBW). These NHANES cycles differed from previous ones in that they collected data on the time between last and current urination and on urine volume, details that provide a more in-depth understanding of what urinary concentrations of environmental contaminants and their metabolites actually mean. “The issue of adjusting for hydration status in general—how much urine someone is producing over a period of time—is something that people in the biomonitoring community always struggle with in terms of correcting for it,” says coauthor Lesa Aylward, principal at Summit Toxicology LLP. ::: ::: Given this additional information, the authors explored whether systematic variations exist in UFR (measured in milliliters of urine produced per hour) as a function of age, sex, race/ethnicity, and body mass index (BMI) category. In addition, they tested their hypotheses by focusing on urinary concentrations and analyte excretion rates (measured in nanograms per hour, with and without adjustment for body weight) among different age groups for the chemicals bisphenol A and 2,5-dichlorophenol. They compared the results with those obtained by using conventional estimation methods, such as adjusting measurements based on urine levels of the metabolite creatinine, a surrogate for hydration status. ::: ::: The NHANES data analyzed in the current study included information on 14,631 participants aged 6 years and older. The authors found that both UFR and UFRBW varied by age and race/ethnicity, whereas only UFR varied by sex, and only UFRBW varied by BMI.2 ::: ::: This latter relationship illustrates a potential impediment to correctly discerning the relationship between a chemical exposure and a particular health variable: a chemical might affect that variable, but the variable itself might influence the measurement of the chemical. This phenomenon, sometimes called “reverse causation,” is highly relevant to reported associations between environmental chemicals and BMI-related conditions such as obesity, heart disease, and diabetes—many of which have been made based on NHANES data.6 ::: ::: As the assessments in the current study demonstrated, calculating analyte excretion rates could offset this problem. It is important to collect the information needed to estimate analyte excretion rates at the time samples are collected; otherwise, adjustments can’t be made to the raw data. ::: ::: The complexity revealed by the findings of the new study is a good thing, says Krista Christensen, an epidemiologist at the Wisconsin Division of Public Health. “This complexity will help researchers to better understand, analyze, and interpret their data—and this article is a great step forward in describing the considerations needed when using urinary biomarker data,” Christensen says. She was not involved in this study but used UFR calculations in another recent study.3 ::: ::: Aylward also indicates that the study raises some broader issues. “Biomonitoring data for chemicals has really exploded in the last fifteen years,” she says. “We’re now moving into a situation where we have a more sophisticated understanding of the physiological factors that might influence the concentrations of chemicals that can be measured. We’re trying to move from being naive consumers of biomonitoring data to being more sophisticated consumers of those data.”
Environmental biomonitoring data provide one way to examine race/ethnicity and income-related exposure disparity and identify potential environmental justice concerns. We screened U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2001–2008 biomonitoring data for 228 chemicals for race/ethnicity and income-related disparity. We defined six subgroups by race/ethnicity—Mexican American, non-Hispanic black, non-Hispanic white—and income—Low Income: poverty income ratio (PIR) <2, High Income: PIR ≥ 2. We assessed disparity by comparing the central tendency (geometric mean [GM]) of the biomonitoring concentrations of each subgroup to that of the reference subgroup (non-Hispanic white/High Income), adjusting for multiple comparisons using the Holm-Bonferroni procedure. There were sufficient data to estimate at least one geometric mean ratio (GMR) for 108 chemicals; 37 had at least one GMR statistically different from one. There was evidence of potential environmental justice concern (GMR significantly >1) for 12 chemicals: cotinine; antimony; lead; thallium; 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol; p,p’-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene; methyl and propyl paraben; and mono-ethyl, mono-isobutyl, and mono-n-butyl phthalate. There was also evidence of GMR significantly <1 for 25 chemicals (of which 17 were polychlorinated biphenyls). Although many of our results were consistent with the U.S. literature, findings relevant to environmental justice were novel for dichlorophenols and some metals.
Triclosan is a broad-spectrum bacteriostat and an antimicrobial agent popularly used in hygiene and health care products. The current paper presents a cost-effective and simpler process of synthesis of triclosan from 2,5-dichlorophenol and potassium 2,4-dichlorophenolate by using p-xylene as a solvent under solid−liquid phase transfer catalysis (S−L PTC), at 120 °C. It leads to 100% selectivity of the product in comparison with a liquid−liquid PTC process. A novel mathematical model is developed to determine simultaneously the rate constant and anion exchange equilibrium constant from the same set of data. This will be helpful in reactor design and scale-up. The activation energy and Gibbs free energy for a combined ion exchange and partitioning of ion pairs are calculated.
Results: There were sufficient data to estimate at least one geometric mean ratio (GMR) for 108 chemicals; 37 had at least one GMR statistically different from one. There was evidence of potential environmental justice concern (GMR significantly >1) for 12 chemicals: cotinine; antimony; lead; thallium; 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol; p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene; methyl and propyl paraben; and mono-ethyl, mono-isobutyl, and mono-n-butyl phthalate. There was also evidence of GMR significantly <1 for 25 chemicals (of which 17 were polychlorinated biphenyls).
The invention belongs to the technical field of herbicide dicamba preparation and relates to a dicamba preparation process. The dicamba preparation process includes steps: taking benzene as a raw material to generate 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene through directional chlorination, catalysis, re-chlorination and rectification; hydrolyzing the 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene to generate a mixture of 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol, and separating and purifying to obtain 2,5-dichlorophenol; using the 2,5-dichlorophenol to prepare 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid; subjecting the 3,6-dichlorosalicylic acid to methylation, saponification, acidification and the like to obtain dicamba. By optimization of technical steps and parameters, the whole dicamba preparation process has advantages of simplicity, low cost, high yield, high selectivity, remarkable reduction of wastewater and increase of equipment utilization rate.
Phenols and parabens show some evidence for endocrine disruption in laboratory animals. The goal of the Methods Advancement for Milk Analysis (MAMA) Study was to develop or adapt methods to measure parabens (methyl, ethyl, butyl, propyl) and phenols (bisphenol A (BPA), 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol, benzophenone-3, triclosan) in urine, milk and serum twice during lactation, to compare concentrations across matrices and with endogenous biomarkers among 34 North Carolina women. These non-persistent chemicals were detected in most urine samples (53-100%) and less frequently in milk or serum; concentrations differed by matrix. Although urinary parabens, triclosan and dichlorophenols concentrations correlated significantly at two time points, those of BPA and benzophenone-3 did not, suggesting considerable variability in those exposures. These pilot data suggest that nursing mothers are exposed to phenols and parabens; urine is the best measurement matrix; and correlations between chemical and endogenous immune-related biomarkers merit further investigation.
Phenols and parabens show some evidence for endocrine disruption in laboratory animals. The goal of the Methods Advancement for Milk Analysis (MAMA) Study was to develop or adapt methods to measure parabens (methyl, ethyl, butyl, propyl) and phenols (bisphenol A (BPA), 2,4-and 2,5-dichlorophenol, benzophenone-3, triclosan) in urine, milk and serum twice during lactation, to compare concentrations across matrices and with endogenous biomarkers among 34 North Carolina women. These non-persistent chemicals were detected in most urine samples (53-100%) and less frequently in milk or serum; concentrations differed by matrix. Although urinary parabens, triclosan and dichlorophenols concentrations correlated significantly at two time points, those of BPA and benzophenone-3 did not, suggesting considerable variability in those exposures. These pilot data suggest that nursing mothers are exposed to phenols and parabens; urine is the best measurement matrix; and correlations between chemical and endogenous immune-related biomarkers merit further investigation.
Abstract Photoreaction mechanisms of 2-chlorophenol, 2,3-dichlorophenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,6-dichlorophenol and 2,4,5-trichlorophenol in low-temperature argon matrices are investigated by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The observed infrared bands of photoproducts are assigned with an aid of density-functional-theory (DFT) calculations, where the 6-31++G ∗∗ basis set is used to optimize geometrical structures. It is concluded that five-member-ring ketene, cyclopentadienylidenemethanone (CPYM), is produced through keto carbene, 2-oxocyclohexa-3,5-dienylidene, by dissociation of hydrogen chloride. The geometries of HCl–CPYM complexes in a matrix cage are derived from the vibrational shifts of the hydrogen chloride.
Phenolic compounds exist widely in the influents and effluents of sewage treatment plants (STPs) and most are un-regulated. In this study, a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) method for the simultaneous analysis of 50 phenolic compounds in wastewater was developed. Deconvolution technology was used to identify contaminants that are covered by co-extracted materials. A mass spectral library containing all 50 silylated phenolic compounds was first established and used for deconvolution. Twelve typical phenolic compounds were selected to optimize the sample preparation procedures. Solid-phase extraction using a C18 cartridge coupled with an HLB cartridge was used for pre-concentration and dichloromethane was used for elution. The solutes were derivatized and analyzed by GC-MS. The blank and matrix spike recoveries ranged from 57.46% to 136.4% and 47.87% to 114.8%, respectively. Method detection limits ranged from 3.64 to 97.64 ng L−1. The relative standard deviations of all the recovery experiments were lower than 13.6%. The instrument limits of quantification ranged from 0.7 to 87.7 pg. The method has been applied to analyze the influents and effluents of 5 Chinese STPs. Except for regulated phenolic compounds (phenol and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol), three un-regulated phenolic compounds, including 2-chlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichloro-3-ethyl-6-nitrophenol were identified in the effluent wastewater. The detected concentrations of un-regulated phenolic compounds could possibly cause environmental effects, indicating that immediate attention is required to prevent complications.
Environmental phenols are a group of chemicals with widespread uses in consumer and personal care products, food and beverage processing, and in pesticides. We assessed exposure to benzophenone-3, bisphenol A (BPA), triclosan, methyl- and propyl parabens, and 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol or their precursors in 506 pregnant women enrolled in the National Children's Study (NCS) Vanguard Study. We measured the urinary concentrations of the target phenols by using online solid-phase extraction-isotope dilution high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. NCS women results were compared to those of 524 similar-aged women in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2009-2010, and to 174 pregnant women in NHANES 2005-2010. In the NCS women, we found significant racial/ethnic differences (p<0.05) in regression adjusted mean concentrations of benzophenone-3, triclosan, 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol, but not of BPA. Urinary 2,4- and 2,5-dichlorophenol concentrations were highly correlated (r=0.66, p<0.0001). Except for BPA and triclosan, adjusted mean concentrations were significantly different across the 7 study sites. Education was marginally significant for benzophenone-3, triclosan, propyl paraben, and 2,5-dichlorophenol. Urinary concentrations of target phenols in NCS pregnant women and U.S. women and pregnant women were similar. In NCS pregnant women, race/ethnicity and geographic location determined urinary concentrations of most phenols (except BPA), suggesting differential exposures. NCS Main Study protocols should collect urine biospecimens and information about exposures to environmental phenols.
Abstract Background Little is known about the associations of bisphenol A, chlorophenols, benzophenones, and parabens with reproductive hormone levels in women. Our goal was to evaluate the associations between repeated measures of these chemicals and their mixtures with reproductive hormones in women. Methods Longitudinal urine samples from healthy, premenopausal women ( n = 143 with 3–5 urine samples each) were measured for bisphenol A, five chlorophenols (2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, triclosan), two ultraviolet (UV) filters (benzophenone-1, benzophenone-3), and eight parabens and their metabolites (benzyl, butyl, ethyl, heptyl, methyl, propyl, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB)) over two menstrual cycles. Estradiol, progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) were measured in blood up to 8 times each menstrual cycle. Linear mixed models were used for both single and multi-chemical exposures estimated using principal component analysis. Four factors were identified including: paraben; paraben metabolites and BPA, phenols, and UV filters. Models were adjusted for creatinine, age, race, and body mass index and weighted with inverse probability of exposure weights to account for time varying confounding. Results In single-chemical models, 3,4-DHB was associated with estradiol (0.06 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.001, 0.12)), 2-4-DCP with increased progesterone 0.14 (0.06, 0.21) and decreased FSH −0.08 (−0.11, −0.04), and 4-HB was associated with increased FSH 0.07 (0.01, 0.13). In multi-chemical models, all factors were associated with increased progesterone (beta coefficient range: 0.15 for UV filter factor to 0.32 for paraben factor). The paraben factor and the paraben metabolite and BPA factor were associated with increased estradiol [0.21 (0.15, 0.28); 0.12 (0.07, 0.18)]. The phenol and UV filter factors were associated with decreased estradiol, FSH, and LH. The UV filter factor showed the strongest inverse association with estradiol −0.16 (−0.22, −0.10), FSH −0.12 (−0.17, −0.07), and LH −0.17 (−0.23, −0.10). Conclusion Mixtures of phenols were associated with changes in reproductive hormones. Such changes could contribute to adverse health in women but additional research is necessary.
Phenolic compounds exist widely in the influents and effluents of sewage treatment plants (STPs) and most are un-regulated. In this study, a gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) method for the simultaneous analysis of 50 phenolic compounds in wastewater was developed. Deconvolution technology was used to identify contaminants that are covered by co-extracted materials. A mass spectral library containing all 50 silylated phenolic compounds was first established and used for deconvolution. Twelve typical phenolic compounds were selected to optimize the sample preparation procedures. Solid-phase extraction using a C18 cartridge coupled with an HLB cartridge was used for pre-concentration and dichloromethane was used for elution. The solutes were derivatized and analyzed by GC-MS. The blank and matrix spike recoveries ranged from 57.46% to 136.4% and 47.87% to 114.8%, respectively. Method detection limits ranged from 3.64 to 97.64 ng L -1 . The relative standard deviations of all the recovery experiments were lower than 13.6%. The instrument limits of quantification ranged from 0.7 to 87.7 pg. The method has been applied to analyze the influents and effluents of 5 Chinese STPs. Except for regulated phenolic compounds (phenol and 2,4,6-trichlorophenol), three un-regulated phenolic compounds, including 2-chlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichloro-3-ethyl-6-nitrophenol were identified in the effluent wastewater. The detected concentrations of un-regulated phenolic compounds could possibly cause environmental effects, indicating that immediate attention is required to prevent complications.
Accumulating evidence from recent studies has suggested a possible link between exposure to environmental pesticides and obesity. In this study, we assessed the potential associations between exposure to dichlorophenol pesticides and obesity in adults. Study participants aged 20-85 years were selected from the 2005 to 2006 and 2007 to 2008 U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, and were categorized as obese and non-obese based on body mass index. Creatinine-corrected urinary concentrations of dichlorophenols were determined to assess level of exposure to environmental pesticides. Multivariate logistic regression was performed using SAS 9.3 to assess the association between 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) levels in urine and obesity with adjustment for potential confounders. Significantly higher geometric means of urinary concentrations of both 2,5-DCP (p<0.0001) and 2,4-DCP (p=0.0170) were seen in obese adults, compared to that in non-obese adults. A dose-dependent increase in the prevalence of obesity was observed in the study participants across increasing levels of urinary 2,5-DCP (p-trend<0.0001). Urinary concentrations of 2,5-DCP were significantly associated with obesity among the second (AOR: 1.47, 95% CI: 1.12, 1.93), third (AOR: 1.41, 95% CI: 1.07, 1.87), and fourth (AOR: 1.62, 95% CI: 1.21, 2.17) inter-quartiles after adjustment for age, gender, race, education, total fat intake, and physical activity. A statistically significant association was not seen between urinary 2,4-DCP and obesity. Our findings suggest a potential relationship between exposure to the fumigant insecticide paradichlorobenzene, measured as urinary concentrations of 2,5-DCP, and obesity in adults. Because we cannot rule out the possibility of reverse causality in our study, prospective studies measuring exposure during etiologically relevant periods are warranted.
The use of a highly sensitive and inexpensive method for determination of residues of bromophos (an organophosphate pesticide) in peanut crops, by fluorogenic labelling and thin-layer chromatography (TLC) is described. The bromophos is hydrolysed and the product 4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenol (BDCP) dansylated with dansyl chloride. The fluorescent dansylated BDCP is separated by TLC and detected fluorimetrically. Linear fluorimetric analytical curves are obtained for bromophos weights ranging between 0.5 and 50 ng. The minimum detectable quantity is estimated to be 0.5 ng. The method can be used to recover as little as 400 ng of bromophos residue from 25 g of peanut seeds.
We measured 12 analytes in urine of 1000 adults living in the United States to establish reference range concentrations for pesticide residues. We frequently found six of these analytes: 2,5-dichlorophenol (in 98% of adults); 2,4-dichlorophenol (in 64%); 1-naphthol (in 86%); 2-naphthol (in 81%); 3,5,6- trichloro-2-pyridinol (in 82%); and pentachlorophenol (in 64%). The 95th percentile concentration (95th PC) for 2,5-dichlorophenol (indicative of p-dichlorobenzene exposure) was 790 micrograms/liter; concentrations ranged up to 8700 micrograms/liter. 2,4-Dichlorophenol concentrations ranged up to 450 micrograms/ liter, and the 95thPC was 64 micrograms/liter. 1-Naphthol and 2-naphthol (indicative of naphthalene exposure) had 95thPCs of 43 and 30 micrograms/liter, respectively; concentrations of 1-naphthol ranged up to 2500 micrograms/liter. Chlorpyrifos exposure was indicated by 3,5,6-tricholoro-2-pyridinol concentrations of 13 (95thPC) and 77 micrograms/liter (maximum observed). Pentachlorophenol had a 95thPC of 8.2 micrograms/liter. Other analytes measured included 4-nitrophenol (in 41%); 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (in 20%); 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (in 9.5%); 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (in 12%); 2-isopropoxyphenol (in 6.8%); and 7-carbofuranphenol (in 1.5%). The 95thPCs of these analytes were < 6 micrograms/liter. p-Dichlorobenzene exposure is ubiquitous; naphthalene and chlorpyrifos are also major sources of pesticide exposure. Exposure to chlorpyrifos appears to be increasing. Although pentachlorophenol exposure is frequent, exposure appears to be decreasing. These reference range concentrations provide information about pesticide exposure and serve as a basis against which to compare concentrations in subjects who may have been exposed to pesticides.
The present invention provides a method and system for continuously producing 2,5-dichlorophenol. The method comprises an aniline salt diazotization process and a diazo solution hydrolysis process. The aniline salt diazotization process comprises the steps of continuously feeding aniline salt and nitrite into a diazo intensive mixing apparatus; performing a diazotization reaction under intensive mixing; feeding a diazo solution generated by the reaction into a diazo solution storing tank; back-mixing a part of the diazo solution in the diazo solution storing tank after cooling and feeding the part of the diazo solution into the diazo intensive mixing apparatus; removing all or a part of heat generated in the diazotization reaction by using the back-mixed cryogenic diazo solution; and directly performing continuous hydrolysis on the other part of the diazo solution. According to the method provided by the present invention, by adopting an intensive mixing process and a back-mixing process, mass and heat transfer during the diazotization reaction and the hydrolysis reaction can be quickly performed; heat can be taken away or given in time; a reaction time is shortened; the side reaction is reduced; the heat utilization rate is improved; the costs are lowered; and a safety factor and the device production capacity are improved.
The electron-transfer quenching of Ru(bpy) (tris(2,2′-bipyridine)ruthenium(II) excited state by 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,6-dichlorophenol (2,6-DCP), in their anionic forms, was studied in de-aerated solutions of neat methanol and 25, 50 and 75% v/v aqueous methanol at 30°C. The quenching rate constants (kq) were determined and their values range from 1 × 107 to 8 × 109 M−1 s−1. In all the mixtures methanol : water the kq values for 2,5-DCP were lower than for 2,4-DCP and 2,6-DCP. This result was discussed in terms of the effect of chloro atom on the quencher oxidation reaction. The photoredox product Ru(bpy) was observed by laser flash photolysis and its quantum yield (ΦRu(+)) calculated by using a comparative method with the formation of zinctetraphenylporphyrin triplet state. The yields of cage escape (Yce) for the different methanol/water mixtures were calculated from the obtained values of ΦRu(+)). Yce increases from 0·1–0·2 in 25% v/v aqueous methanol to 0·5–0·6 in neat methanol. This change of Yce with the solvent composition was discussed in terms of combined effects of viscosity and solvent cage on the rate constant of cage escape (k−d) and the rate constant for back electron-transfer to the ground state from geminate pair (kbc), respectively. The constants k−d were calculated with the Eigen equation. The constants kbc were estimated from Yce and k-d by applying a simplified reaction scheme. The kbc kbc values range from 3·2 × 109 to 1·3 × 1010 s−1.
Abstract Background Exposure to some environmental chemicals is ubiquitous and linked to a variety of adverse outcomes, including children's health. While few studies have assessed the contribution of both male and female exposures to children's health, understanding the patterns of couple's exposure is needed to understand their joint effects. Objective We assessed the correlation patterns between male and female partners' concentrations of 37 environmental chemical biomarkers. We also assessed the temporal reliability of the biomarkers within couples. Methods We calculated Spearman pairwise correlations between specific gravity adjusted urinary biomarker concentrations and hair mercury concentrations among 380 couples enrolled in the Environment and Reproductive Health (EARTH) study at the Massachusetts General Hospital Fertility Center (2004–2017). We calculated intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) for couple's biomarkers to assess the temporal variability of these exposures within a couple using multiple paired-samples from couples. Results All biomarkers were positively correlated within couples (range: 0.05 for tert -butylphenyl phenyl phosphate to 0.66 for triclosan). In general, the biomarkers with the highest within couple correlation were those of chemicals for which diet (e.g., di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate), personal care products use (e.g., triclosan, benzophenone-3), and the indoor environment (e.g., 2,5-dichlorophenol) are considered primary exposure sources. Most other biomarkers were moderately correlated (0.3– Conclusions Urinary concentrations of several biomarkers were mostly moderately correlated within couples, suggesting similar exposure sources. Future epidemiological studies should collect samples from both partners to be able to accurately determine the contribution of maternal and paternal exposures to offspring health.
Abstract The condensation of 2,6-dichloroaniline and 2,5-dichlorophenol gave 2-hydroxy-2′,3,6,6′-tetrachlorobiphenyl which was readily cyclized to 1,4,9-trichlorodibenzofuran (TrCDF). 1,4,9-TrCDF was converted into [1,4,9- 3 H 3 ]-dibenzofuran by catalytic exchange with tritium gas. The tritiated dibenzofuran was dissolved in methylene chloride and chlorine gas was bubbled into the solution for 20 minutes to give the following PCDF congeners which were separated and purified by HPLC; [ 3 H]-2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF, 57 Ci/mmol), [ 3 H]-1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (PeCDF, 34 Ci/mmol) and [ 3 H]-1,2,3,6,7,8-/1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran (HCDF, 32.5 Ci/mmol). The dose-dependent binding of the new radioligands with different concentrations of cytosolic receptor protein was saturable. Scatchard plot analysis of the binding isotherms gave K d values of 1.3 ± 0.07 (2), 5.9 ± 1.2 (2), 2.3 ± 1.5 (2) nM respectively for radiolabeled 2,3,7,8-TCDF, 1,2,3,7,8-PeCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-/1,2,3,4,7,8-HCDF respectively (no. of determination shown in brackets). Although the Scatchard plots with 2,3,7,8-TCDD frequently were curvilinear at low concentrations of the radioligand, the plots obtained with the three PCDF radioligands were all linear. In addition, the Hill plot analysis of the data for all four radioligands gave slopes which were equal to one and the results are consistent with noncooperative ligand-receptor binding.
Results: All biomarkers were positively correlated within couples (range: 0.05 for tertbutylphenyl phenyl phosphate to 0.66 for triclosan). In general, the biomarkers with the highest within couple correlation were those of chemicals for which diet (e.g., di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate), personal care products use (e.g., triclosan, benzophenone-3), and the indoor environment (e.g., 2,5-dichlorophenol) are considered primary exposure sources. Most other biomarkers were moderately correlated (0.3-< 0.6). Similar patterns of temporal reliability were observed across biomarkers.
The metabolism and excretion of leptophos,0-(4-bromo-2,5 dichlorophenyl)0-methyl phenylphosphonothioate, and its phenol, 4-bromo2,5-dichlorophenol, were examined in susceptible (S) and leptophos resistant (R) strains of the Egyptian cotton leafwormSpodoptera littoralis (Boisd.). Leptophos injected into the larvae is convertedin vivo into at least five chloroform-soluble and two water-soluble products. Minor qualitative differences were observed between S and R larvae. Quantitatively, the disappearance of leptophos was faster in R (t1/2=2.5 hr) than in S (t1/2=21.5 hr) larvae. A small amount of leptophos oxon (2 to 7%) was detected in S larvae, but none in R larvae. The major degradation product was the free phenol and its amount was relatively higher in R (17 to 22%) than in S (5 to 15%) larvae. After 24 hr, 25% of the injected leptophos was excreted unchanged by R larvae, whereas less amount (15%) was excreted by S larvae. However, the amount of excreted phenol, in free form, by S and R larvae was almost equal (5 to 8%). Following injection of the phenol derivative, its disappearance was faster in S (t1/2=36 min) than in R (t1/2=72 min) larvae, whereas phenol excretion, 24 hr after injection, was significantly higher by R (37%) than by S (9%) larvae.
Our purpose was to show that the sintering temperature of TiO(2) can have a different net effect (thought to arise from a decrease in surface area against a decrease in recombination rate of charge carriers) on the photocatalytic removal rate of various organic pollutants in water. For that, we have chosen four chlorinated pollutants, viz. 4-chlorophenol (4-CP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 4-chlorobenzoic acid (4-CBA) and dichloroacetic acid (DCAA). Their photocatalytic removal was studied over four TiO(2) samples (from Millennium Chemicals or affiliate) all obtained identically by TiOSO4 thermohydrolysis with subsequent calcination at various temperatures, TiO(2) Degussa P25 was used for comparison. At equal TiO(2) mass in the slurry photoreactor, the pseudo-first-order removal rate constant k increased with the calcination temperatures for the three aromatic pollutants, whereas it was the opposite for the aliphatic acid. Results obtained with P25 were consistent with the reasoning based on the combined effects of surface area and charge recombination rate. Similar k values for 4-CP and 2,5-DCP, irrespective of the TiO(2), further illustrate the importance of the molecular structure. For 4-CBA, the possibility of decarboxylation in addition to an attack on the ring, as well as a much higher extent of adsorption, can explain a higher k with respect to the chlorophenols. The implication of these results is that the hole attack mechanism for carboxylic acids is much more sensitive to surface area variation than would be the (diffusible) OH radical mechanism for aromatics which could react in the near-surface solution-phase.
Numerous efforts have been made to integrate nanorods into 3D ordered multifunctional architectures. Herein, we report a rational design and the successful fabrication of a novel chestnut-like Fe3O4@C@ZnSnO3 core–shell hierarchical structure. Reactive Zn and Sn colloids obtained using laser ablation in liquids were used as non-ion precursors to intentionally grow ZnSnO3 nanorods onto the surfaces of core–shell Fe3O4@C particles under solvothermal conditions. The core–shell hierarchical structures were analyzed by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, energy-dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX), X-ray diffraction, and a superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer (Quantum Design MPMS). The results showed that the Fe3O4@C particles served as nucleation sites for the oriented growth of ZnSnO3 nanorods on the surfaces of the carbon layer. The synthesized core–shell composite exhibited cyclic photocatalytic ability toward the degradation of 2,5-dichlorophenol model molecules because of the compact assembly of the magnetic Fe3O4 core, the active ZnSnO3 photocatalyst, and a protective carbon layer.
Housing conditions affect occupants continuously, and health interventions have shown a positive association between housing investment or improvement and occupant's health. However, the sources of the housing problems were less understood. Since it was observed that lead dust and chloroanisoles released from housing (materials) as indoor pollutants affected child's health, we now aimed to examine the relationships among built year, environmental chemicals and individual health in adults in a national and population-based setting. Data were retrieved from the US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 2009-2010, including demographics, housing characteristics, self-reported health status, biomarkers and blood and urinary chemical concentrations. Adults aged 20 and above were included for statistical analysis (n = 5,793). Analysis involved chi-square test, t test, and survey-weighted general linear regression and logistic regression modelling. People who resided in older housing built before 1990 tended to report chronic bronchitis, liver problems, stroke, heart failure, diabetes, asthma and emphysema. Higher values in HDL cholesterol, blood lead and blood cadmium and having positive responses of hepatitis A, B, C and E antibodies among occupants were also observed. Furthermore, higher environmental chemical concentrations related to old housing including urinary cadmium, cobalt, platinum, mercury, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol concentrations and mono-cyclohexyl phthalate and mono-isobutyl phthalate metabolites were shown in occupants as well. Older housing (≥30 years) seemed to contribute to the amount of environmental chemicals that affected human health. Regular monitoring, upgrading and renovation of housing to remove environmental chemicals and policy to support people in deprived situations against environmental injustice would be needed.
O-Hexyl O-2,5-dichlorophenyl phosphoramidate (HDCP) is a chiral organophosphorus compound that undergoes enzymatic hydrolysis in the rat and hen. Studies of the stereospecificity of its biodegradation are necessary to establish HDCP toxicity. To this effect, methods have been developed for the analysis of the HDCP stereoisomers by gas chromatography (GC) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The best resolution and analysis were obtained by HPLC with UV detection, a OA-4100 Techocel chiral column and the mobile phase: hexane-1,2-dichloroethane-ethanol (92:5:3, v/v/v). The detection limit was 25 microM for HDCP and 5 microM for one of its hydrolytic products: 2,5-dichlorophenol (DCP). The method was reproducible intra o inter die. Moreover, a method is described for the liquid extraction of HDCP and DCP with 1,2-dichloroethane in biological samples, with a yield of (80.3 +/- 9.7)% (n = 10, S.D.) for HDCP and (84.1 +/- 10.0)% (n = 10, S.D.) for DCP. The method is compared with the solid-phase extraction technique with C18 sorbent. The hydrolysis of HDCP by hen plasma is studied.
The biotransformation and kinetics of 1,4-dichlorobenzene (1,4-DCB) were studied in male Wistar rats at three oral dose levels (10, 50 and 250 mg/kg). The effect of induction of CYP2E1 by isoniazid on the kinetics and biotransformation was determined. Excretion was predominantly via the urine (78-85%) and to a small extent via the faeces (2-5%). The relative contributions of these routes were not dose dependent. Excretion via the bile ranged from less than 5% at the low dose level to 30% at the high dose level. The major biliary metabolite was the glucuronide of 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP). The time point at which the plasma concentrations of the parent compound and the metabolites were maximal (TCmax) as well as the maximum concentrations (Cmax) increased with higher dose level. Induction by isoniazid resulted in a faster urinary elimination, whereas TCmax and Cmax were lower for induced rats. In addition, the area under the blood curve (AUC) was smaller and total clearance was higher for induced rats. 1,4-DCB was mainly metabolized to 2,5-DCP (ca. 90%), which was detected in the urine as its sulfate (50-60%), glucuronide (20-30%) and the free form (5-10%). Minor metabolites were the N-acetyl-cysteine-S-dihydro-hydroxy-1,4-dichlorobenzene and the corresponding dehydrated N-acetyl-cysteine-S-1,4-dichlorobenzene, which comprised ca. 10% of total metabolites. No hydroquinones were observed for the male Wistar rat, not even under conditions of induced oxidative metabolism.
The invention discloses a method for producing halogenated phenylamine from halogenated aniline through diazotization. The method for producing halogenated phenylamine from halogenated aniline through diazotization comprises the following steps: salifying and diazotizing halogenated aniline to obtain diazonium liquor containing diazonium salt, and hydrolyzing the diazonium liquor to obtain halogenated phenylamine, wherein the organic solvent solution of halogenated phenylamine is added into nitrosyl sulphuric acid solution, salifying and diazotization are carried out on halogenated phenylamine at the same time, and liquid separation is carried out after reaction is finished, thus obtaining an aqueous phase, namely the diazonium liquor. The method for producing halogenated phenylamine from halogenated aniline through diazotization has the advantages that salifying and diazotization are carried out on halogenated aniline and nitrosyl sulphuric acid solution in a homogenous system in the presence of an inorganic solvent, reaction is mild, a reaction mass transfer effect is good, no nitrogen dioxide waste gas is produced during reaction, the solvent obtained after reaction is finished can be recycled, and production of a large amount of waste acid is also avoided, so that cost is saved, the emission of 'three wastes' is reduced, and cleanness is enhanced; and yield of 2,5-dichlorophenol is higher than 90%, so that the method for producing halogenated phenylamine from halogenated aniline through diazotization has a great promotional value.
The iodoarene moiety is an important structural motif in biologically active molecules (e.g., thyroid hormone) and a synthetic intermediate for a variety of fine chemistry products (e.g., isovanillyl sweeteners 1 ), radiopharmaceuticals, 2 environmental contaminants, 3, 4 and numerous bioactive compounds, such as camptothecin, 5 cephalosporin derivatives, 6 dehydrotubifoline, 7 morphine, 8 sangliferine A, 9 ecteinascidine, 10 and berkelic acid methyl ester. 11 One example of a prescription drug synthesized from an iodoarene intermediate is galanthamine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor for the symptomatic treatment of senile dementia of Alzheimer patients. 12 The usefulness of iodoarenes as synthetic intermediates is partly due to the fact that the iodo substituent can undergo a multitude of transition metal-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions. 13, 14 In particular the electrophilic iodination of phenols, anisoles, and anilines provides straightforward access to a range of valuable iodoarene intermediates. 15, 16 A variety of iodine atom donating reagents, such as N-iodosuccinimide/p-toluenesulfonic acid 17 and iodine monochloride (ICl), 18 have been used successfully for the iodination of aromatic compounds. In addition, elemental iodine (I 2 ) is a particularly attractive source of iodine atoms. 15, 16 Iodination reactions using I 2 require activation by protons, metal ions or a suitable solvent and trapping of the hydriodic acid formed during the reaction to prevent cleavage of carboneiodide bonds. Finally, oxidative activation strategies have been employed to generate reactive iodonium species or to oxidize the released iodide to iodine, thus allowing a stoichiometric use of the iodine atoms present in the reaction. 15, 16 Most iodination reagents give good-to-excellent yields of iodinated phenols, anisoles, and anilines and display a high para regioselectivity. In para-substituted aromatic compounds, iodination typically results in mono-or even di-iodination in ortho positions. Iodinated phenols, anisoles, and anilines with chlorine substituents in the meta position are of interest as starting materials for a variety of drug molecules 19e21 and environmental contaminants. 3, 4 These compounds are frequently synthesized via the reduction of a suitable nitrobenzene followed by a Sandmeyer reaction to introduce the iodo substituent. 3,4,22e24 Although a direct iodination of a suitable chlorinated precursor would greatly improve access to these building blocks, the regioselectivity of the iodination of chlorinated aromatic compounds has been poorly characterized. For example, 3,5-dichloro-2-iodophenol, a starting material for the synthesis of heat shock protein-90 (HSP-90) inhibitors, can only be synthesized in moderate yield by iodination of 3,5-dichlorophenol with NaH/I 2 . 19 2,5-Dichloro-4-iodophenol, a precursor of cephalosporin derivatives with activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, was synthesized from 2,5-dichlorophenol with Ag 2 SO 4 /I 2 . 6 Several chlorinated iodo-and diiodoanilines have been prepared by iodination of the corresponding chlorinated aniline with iodine monochloride. 20, 21, 25, 26 For example, 2-iodo-3,4-dichloroaniline, a starting material for preparation of indolyl substituted benzoic acids for the treatment of urinary tract disorders, has been synthesized by ICl/AcOH in only 35% yield. 26 One reason for the lack of direct iodination procedures for chlorinated aromatic compounds is the challenging separation of different iodinated regioisomers (Scheme 1) and the formation of byproducts resulting from dehalogenation, polysubstitution and other side-reactions, which considerably complicates the product isolation and purification. Here, we systematically investigate the regioselective iodination of a series of chlorinated phenols, anisoles, anilines, and other aromatic compounds using a series of iodination reagents, with a special emphasis on iodination reactions using I 2 and silver salts with non-coordinating anions.
A multicomponent protein complex containing manganese (II)-dependent peroxidase, laccase and β-glucosidase was isolated from culture extracts of the white rot basidiomycete Lentinula edodes. This protein complex showed a single protein band on native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). On sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)–PAGE, however, it displayed three major bands and several additional minor bands ranging in size from 60 kDa to 180 kDa, suggesting it being a complex of six to eight different proteins. The molecular mass of this complex was estimated to be approximately 660 kDa from the elution position of gel filtration. This enzyme complex was effective in transforming environmentally persistent xenobiotics, pentachlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorophenol.
The micro-procedure involved interaction of benzene with phosphorus trichloride followed by addition of sulphur. Phenyl dichlorophosphine sulphide was condensed with methanol to form 0-methyl phenylthiophosphono-chloridate which was allowed to react with the sodium salt of 4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenol to yield leptophos [O-(4-bromo-2,5-dichlorophenyl) 0-methyl phenyl phosphonothioate]. Five radioactive leptophos compounds were prepared by substituting the cold chemicals with the appropriate radioactive precursor (32PCl3, 1-14C-benzene, 35S, 14C-methanol or tritiated 4-bromo-2,5 dichlorophenol).
The linearity and independence of multiple trace components in the presence of a dominant adsorbate, which was previously found for trace liquids on activated carbon in water solution, is also found for solid adsorbates and in organic solvents. This linearity suggests a general method for the determination of multiple trace adsorbates on activated carbon by adsorptive displacement. Systems studied comprise: 2,5-dichlorophenol, 3,5-dichlorophenol, and phenol in aqueous p-nitrophenol; p-nitrotoluene, o-dichlorobenzene, 1,3-dibromopropane, 1-bromohexane, and 2-bromobutane in p-nitrophenol-methanol; and l-chloro-3-nitrobenzene, p-dichlorobenzene, naphthalene, and 1-chloronaphthalene in a cyclohexane solution of anthracene. Isotherms are reported for one, two, and three components.
The natural biotic capacity of soils to degrade gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH, lindane) was estimated using an enrichment technique based on the ability of soil bacteria to develop on synthetic media and degrade the xenobiotic compound, used as the sole source of carbon and energy. Bacterial inocula from relatively highly contaminated soils (from wood treatment factories) were found to promote efficiently the degradation of gamma-HCH, which subsequently permitted isolation of a competent gamma-HCH-degrading microorganism. The decrease of gamma-HCH concurrently with the release of chloride ions and the production of CO2 demonstrated the complete mineralization of gamma-HCH mediated by the isolate. This was confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses showing that degradation subproducts of gamma-HCH included an unidentified tetrachlorinated compound and subsequently 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene and 2,5-dichlorophenol. The two linA- and linB-like genes coding, respectively, for a gamma-HCH dehydrochlorinase and a dehalogenase were characterized by using a PCR strategy based on sequence homologies with previously published sequences from Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the linA-like region revealed the presence of a 472-bp open reading frame exhibiting high homology with the linA gene from S. paucimobilis, while a preliminary study also indicated strong homology among the two linB genes. All enzymes involved in the gamma-HCH degradative pathway appear to be extracellular and encoded by genes located on the chromosome, although numerous cryptic plasmids have been detected.
Sphingobium japonicum UT26 utilizes γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) as its sole source of carbon and energy. In our previous studies, we cloned and characterized genes encoding enzymes for the conversion of γ-HCH to β-ketoadipate in UT26. In this study, we analyzed a mutant obtained by transposon mutagenesis and identified and characterized new genes encoding a putative ABC-type transporter essential for the utilization of γ-HCH in strain UT26. This putative ABC transporter consists of four components, permease, ATPase, periplasmic protein, and lipoprotein, encoded by linK, linL, linM, and linN, respectively. Mutation and complementation analyses indicated that all the linKLMN genes are required, probably as a set, for γ-HCH utilization in UT26. Furthermore, the mutant cells deficient in this putative ABC transporter showed (i) higher γ-HCH degradation activity and greater accumulation of the toxic dead-end product 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), (ii) higher sensitivity to 2,5-DCP itself, and (iii) higher permeability of hydrophobic compounds than the wild-type cells. These results strongly suggested that LinKLMN are involved in γ-HCH utilization by controlling membrane hydrophobicity. This study clearly demonstrated that a cellular factor besides catabolic enzymes and transcriptional regulators is essential for utilization of xenobiotic compounds in bacterial cells.
[Objective] The aim was to establish a novel synthesis method of Dicamba.[Method]From 2,5-dichlorophenol,3,6-dichloro-2methoxy benzoic acid was prepared by the reaction of acylation,rearrangement,methylation and haloform reaction.The synthesis parameters of 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxyl acetophenone were optimized by orthogonal design experiment,and the influence of temperature,the rate of catalvst / substrate(mol / mol) and reaction time on the yield were investigated.[Result] The new method afforded 3,6-dichloro-2-methoxy benzoic acid in 35.0% yield.In the synthesis of 3,6-dichloro-2-hydroxyl acetophenone,the rate of catalvst / substrate was more important than reaction time and temperature,and the reaction proceeded optimally at the rate of 1.6(catalyst / substrate) and at 150 ℃ for 1.5 h.[Conclusion] The research result provides reference for study on the synthesis of Dicamba.
Abstract Bioremediation of anthropogenic organic pollutants in cold climates is often limited by lower microbial or enzyme activity induced by low temperature. The present study addressed this issue through the degradation of γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) by three Sphingobium strains ( S. indicum B90A, S. japonicum UT26 and S. francense Sp+) under low temperature (4 °C). After 5 days incubation at 4 °C, 79.7% and 43.8% of 5 and 25 mg L −1 of γ-HCH added were degraded, respectively by the inoculation of 1.75 × 10 7 cells mL −1 of S. indicum B90A. An increase in inoculum concentration to 1.72 × 10 8 cells mL −1 significantly increased the degradation to 98.1 ± 1.7% of 5 mg L −1 within 24 h. Further, S. indicum B90A and S. japonicum UT26 can rapidly degrade γ-HCH at 4 °C, while the degradation capability of S. francense Sp+ is relatively low. At 4 °C, γ-HCH is transformed to extremely low amounts of 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene (1,2,4-TCB) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) by S. indicum B90A, but most of γ-HCH were transformed to 2,5-Dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol (2,5-DDOL) by S. japonicum UT26. These results revealed that haloalkane dehalogenases in some Sphingobium species are very active at temperature as low as 4 °C and S. indicum B90A might be a good candidate for developing novel bioremediation techniques for cold regions to decontaminate γ-HCH from soils/waters.
Ozone pretreatment studies of four model phenolic compounds were conducted to evaluate the effects of ozonation on the anaerobic biodegradability and toxicity of these compounds. Two types of batch studies, the Biochemical Methane Potential (BMP) and the Anaerobic Toxicity Assay (ATA), were performed on samples ozonated upon phenol, o-cresol, 2,5-dichlorophenol and 2,4-dinitrophenol. Experimental results showed that toxic and refractory phenolic compounds were converted to methane gas by means of preozonation. In general, the biodegradable fraction of the oxidation products increased as the ozone dose was increased. The early ozonation products of o-cresol and phenol, however, were more toxic than the initial compounds. The rates of COD and Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC) reduction through ozonation were faster and products formed were less inhibitory in the basic pH range than in the acid pH range.
The gas-phase formation of tetrachlorodibenzofurans (T 4 CDFs) and dichlorodibenzo- p -dioxins (DCDDs), and trichlorodibenzofuranols (T 3 CDF-ols) from combinations of 2,3-, 2,4-, and 2,5-dichlorophenols (DCPs), each of which have one ortho site chlorinated, was studied to assess the effect of chlorine substitution pattern on reactivity. Benzene containing DCP, dissolved individually and in mixtures of equal amounts, was vaporized when combined with a heated gas stream (1% total organic vapor, 8% oxygen) and passed through a 10s flow reactor. Maximum gas phase formation of furan and dioxin occurs at temperatures between 500 and 700 °CC. Results confirm that chlorine substitution at ortho sites it is necessary for dioxin formation via carbon-oxygen coupling, whereas formation of both dibenzofurans and dibenzofuranols occurs via carbon-carbon coupling at unsubstituted ortho sites Effects of the second chlorine substituent were complex. In single DCP precursor experiments, 2,3-DCP strongly favored T 4 CDF formation, whereas the greatest DCDD yield was from 2,4-DCP. T 3 CDF-ol was produced only from 2,5-DCP, consistent with a reaction mechanism that rquires a chlorine meta substitutent adjacent to an unsubstituted ortho site in the phenol precursor. In DCP mixture experiments, T 4 CDF yields were greatest from 2,3- and 2,5-DCP, two 2,3-DCP, and 2,3- and 2,4-DCP, consistent with these combinations of phenoxy radicals having at least steric hindrance in carbon-carbon coupling, DCDD yields were greater from combinations of 2,3- and 2,4-DCP and 2,3- and 2,5-DCP than from combinations of two 2,3-DCP, two 2,4-DCP, and two 2,5-DCP. In all cases, homogeneous gas-phase formation of furan was favored over dioxin from DCP containing one ortho chlorine substituent. Moreover, secondary furan products, but not dioxin products, were formed by reactions involving phenol, produced from benzene, and monochlorophenols, produced from DCP. This work contributes to a better understanding of factors that control the distribution of furan and dioxin products formed in the gas phase of combustion exhaust streams.
Abstract Introduction Preterm birth continues to be a significant public heath concern and is a leading cause of perinatal and infant mortality. Environmental exposures to phenols and parabens are suspected to potentially contribute to the pathology of preterm birth, yet limited human studies have characterized the extent to which these toxicants are associated with birth outcomes. Methods We examined the associations between phenols, parabens, and preterm birth, within pregnant women who were recruited early in gestation into the LIFECODES cohort at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts. Urine samples were collected at up to 4 time points in pregnancy and analyzed for phenols and parabens. We selected 130 cases of preterm birth (defined as delivery before 37 weeks gestation), and 350 random controls. We categorized preterm birth subtypes based on clinical presentation and identified 75 cases of spontaneous preterm birth (characterized by spontaneous preterm labor and/or preterm premature rupture of membranes), and 37 cases of placental preterm birth (characterized by preeclampsia and/or intrauterine growth restriction). We used multivariate logistic regression with visit specific and geometric averages of phenols and parabens to determine associations with preterm birth. Results We observed moderate variability in urinary phenol and paraben concentrations over pregnancy with intraclass correlation coefficients ranging between 0.45 and 0.68. Regression analyses indicated mostly null associations. We observed inverse associations, notably between 2,5-dichlorophenol and overall preterm birth (adjusted odds ratio [95% confidence interval, CI]: 0.79 [0.67 – 0.94]), and this relationship was consistent by study visit. Conversely, ethyl paraben was associated with increased risk for placental preterm birth (adjusted odds ratio [95% CI]: 1.47 [1.14 – 1.91]). Bisphenol-S detection at visit 4 was associated with overall preterm birth (adjusted odds ratio [95% CI]: 2.05 [1.09, 3.89]). Conclusions While the findings from this study largely indicate null associations, we observed some relationships between select phenols, parabens and preterm birth, which warrants further investigation of these toxicants and birth outcomes.
We developed a method using on-line solid phase extraction (SPE) coupled to high performance liquid chromatography-isotope dilution tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) to measure the serum concentrations of seven environmental phenols and five parabens: bisphenol A; ortho-phenylphenol; 2,4-dichlorophenol; 2,5-dichlorophenol; 2,4,5-trichlorophenol; benzophenone-3; triclosan; and methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, butyl-, and benzyl-parabens. The phenols and parabens present in serum were retained and concentrated on a C18 reversed-phase size-exclusion SPE column, back-eluted from the SPE column while the eluate was diluted through a mixing Tee (analyte peak focusing), separated using a pair of monolithic HPLC columns, and detected by isotope dilution-MS/MS. Sample preparation did not require protein precipitation, only dilution of the serum with 0.1M formic acid. This method, which combines an on-line SPE with analyte peak focusing feature and the selective atmospheric pressure photoionization MS detection, resulted in limits of detection ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 ng/mL for most of the analytes. The high throughput and adequate sensitivity with yet a relative low serum volume used (100 microL) confirm that analytically it is possible to measure simultaneously these phenols and parabens with the precision and accuracy at sub-parts-per-billion levels required for biomonitoring. However, important additional factors, including validated sample collecting, handling, and storing protocols, as well as toxicokinetic data, are required if these measures are used for exposure assessment.
Introduction: Preterm birth continues to be a significant public heath concern and is a leading cause of perinatal and infant mortality. Environmental exposures to phenols and parabens are suspected to potentially contribute to the pathology of preterm birth, yet limited human studies have characterized the extent to which these toxicants are associated with birth outcomes. Methods: We examined the associations between phenols, parabens, and preterm birth, within pregnant women who were recruited early in gestation into the LIFECODES cohort at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts. Urine samples were collected at up to 4 time points in pregnancy and analyzed for phenols and parabens. We selected 130 cases of preterm birth (defined as delivery before 37 weeks gestation), and 350 random controls. We categorized preterm birth subtypes based on clinical presentation and identified 75 cases of spontaneous preterm birth (characterized by spontaneous preterm labor and/or preterm premature rupture of membranes), and 37 cases of placental preterm birth (characterized by preeclampsia and/or intrauterine growth restriction). We used multivariate logistic regression with visit specific and geometric averages of phenols and parabens to determine associations with preterm birth. Results: We observed moderate variability in urinary phenol and paraben concentrations over pregnancy with intraclass correlation coefficients ranging between 0.45 and 0.68. Regression analyses indicated mostly null associations. We observed inverse associations, notably between 2,5-dichlorophenol and overall preterm birth (adjusted odds ratio [95% confidence interval, CI]: 0.79 [0.67 -0.94]), and this relationship was consistent by study visit. Conversely, ethyl paraben was associated with increased risk for placental preterm birth (adjusted odds ratio [95% CI]: 1.47 [1.14 -1.91]). Bisphenol-S detection at visit 4 was associated with overall preterm birth (adjusted odds ratio [95% CI]: 2.05 [1.09, 3.89]). Conclusions: While the findings from this study largely indicate null associations, we observed some relationships between select phenols, parabens and preterm birth, which warrants further investigation of these toxicants and birth outcomes.
Phenols broadly comprise chemical compounds with hydroxyl groups bonded to an aromatic hydrocarbon, and parabens are a subset of phenols that contain an ester group on the aromatic hydrocarbon in addition to the hydroxyl group. Various phenols and parabens are used in personal care and other consumer products, resulting in widespread human exposure (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2017b) . Bisphenol-A (BPA), the most-studied of phenolic compounds is used in polycarbonate plastics, epoxy resins, and thermal paper with numerous downstream applications (Vandenberg et al., 2007) . Due to growing demand for BPA-free products stemming from toxicity and health concerns, the use of and human exposure to replacement chemicals for these applications, such as bisphenol-S (BPS), may be increasing rapidly (Ye et al., 2015) . This is of concern since the potential health consequences following exposure to BPS have been much less studied than BPA, although it could possess similar toxicity (Rochester and Bolden, 2015) . Among other common environmental phenols for which pervasive exposure has been demonstrated, benzophenone-3 (BP3) is a UV filter found in many sunscreens, face lotions, and other products such as cosmetics, conditioners, and plastics (Calafat et al., 2008) . The chemicals 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) are measurable in a high proportion of human urine samples due to common use in pesticides and deodorizers (Meeker et al., 2013; Ye et al., 2014) . Triclosan (TCS) and triclocarban (TCB) are antimicrobial agents most commonly used in soaps, toothpastes, mouthwash, lotions, deodorants, and various medical products (Calafat et al., 2007; Meeker et al., 2013) . Finally, parabens are also antimicrobials that are used as preservatives in many cosmetics, as well as in some packaged foods and pharmaceuticals (Calafat et al., 2010; Meeker et al., 2013) .
The growth of a γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH)-degrading bacterium Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 in rich medium was inhibited by γ-HCH. This growth inhibition was not observed in a mutant that lacked the initial or second step enzymatic activity for γ-HCH degradation, suggesting that metabolites of γ-HCH are toxic to UT26. Two metabolites of γ-HCH, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ), showed a direct toxic effect on UT26 and other sphingomonad strains. Because only 2,5-DCP accumulated during γ-HCH degradation, 2,5-DCP is thought to be a main compound for growth inhibition.
The growth of a -hexachlorocyclohexane (-HCH)-degrading bacterium Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 in rich medium was inhibited by -HCH. This growth inhibition was not observed in a mutant that lacked the initial or second step enzymatic activity for -HCH degradation, suggesting that metabolites of -HCH are toxic to UT26. Two metabolites of -HCH, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ), showed a direct toxic effect on UT26 and other sphingomonad strains. Because only 2,5-DCP accumulated during -HCH degradation, 2,5-DCP is thought to be a main compound for growth inhibition.
BACKGROUND ::: Toxicology studies have shown adverse effects of developmental exposure to industrial phenols. Evaluation in humans is challenged by potentially marked within-subject variability of phenol biomarkers in pregnant women, which is poorly characterized. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVES ::: We aimed to characterize within-day, between-day, and between-week variability of phenol urinary biomarker concentrations during pregnancy. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In eight French pregnant women, we collected all urine voids over a 1-wk period (average, 60 samples per week per woman) at three occasions (15±2, 24±2, and 32±1 gestational weeks) in 2012-2013. Aliquots of each day and of the whole week were pooled within-subject. We assayed concentrations of 10 phenols in these pools, and, for two women, in all spot (unpooled) samples collected during a 1-wk period. We characterized variability using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) with spot samples (within-day variability), daily pools (between-day variability), and weekly pools (between-week variability). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: For most biomarkers, the within-day variability was high (ICCs between 0.03 and 0.50). The between-day variability, based on samples pooled within each day, was much lower, with ICCs >0.60 except for bisphenol S (0.14, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.00, 0.39). The between-week variability differed between compounds, with triclosan and bisphenol S having the lowest ICCs (<0.3) and 2,5-dichlorophenol the highest (ICC >0.9). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: During pregnancy, phenol biomarkers showed a strong within-day variability, while the variability between days of a given week was more limited. One biospecimen is not enough to efficiently characterize exposure; collecting biospecimens during a single week may be enough to represent well the whole pregnancy exposure for some but not all phenols. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP1994.
BACKGROUND: Toxicology studies have shown adverse effects of developmental exposure to industrial phenols. Evaluation in humans is challenged by potentially marked within-subject variability of phenol biomarkers in pregnant women, which is poorly characterized. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to characterize within-day, between-day, and between-week variability of phenol urinary biomarker concentrations during pregnancy. METHODS: In eight French pregnant women, we collected all urine voids over a 1-wk period (average, 60 samples per week per woman) at three occasions (15 ± 2, 24 ± 2, and 32 ± 1 gestational weeks) in 2012-2013. Aliquots of each day and of the whole week were pooled within-subject. We assayed concentrations of 10 phenols in these pools, and, for two women, in all spot (unpooled) samples collected during a 1-wk period. We characterized variability using intraclass correlation coefficients (ICCs) with spot samples (within-day variability), daily pools (between-day variability), and weekly pools (between-week variability). RESULTS: For most biomarkers, the within-day variability was high (ICCs between 0.03 and 0.50). The between-day variability, based on samples pooled within each day, was much lower, with ICCs >0:60 except for bisphenol S (0.14, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.00, 0.39). The betweenweek variability differed between compounds, with triclosan and bisphenol S having the lowest ICCs (<0:3) and 2,5-dichlorophenol the highest (ICC >0:9). CONCLUSION: During pregnancy, phenol biomarkers showed a strong within-day variability, while the variability between days of a given week was more limited. One biospecimen is not enough to efficiently characterize exposure; collecting biospecimens during a single week may be enough to represent well the whole pregnancy exposure for some but not all phenols. https://doi
Phenols include high-production-volume chemicals with widespread uses in daily life products. For example, bisphenols are employed in the manufacture of epoxy resins and certain polymer plastics used in food and beverage containers and in other consumer products (Chen et al. 2016; INERIS 2014; NTP 2008) . Parabens are used as preservatives in cosmetics, food, beverages, and pharmaceuticals; benzophenone-3, an ultraviolet-filter, is used in plastics and cosmetics; triclosan is used for its antibacterial properties in personal care products, clothing, or kitchenware (Cosmetic Ingredient Review Expert Panel 2008; Krause et al. 2012; NLM 2016) ; 2,4-dichlorophenol is used in the production of certain pesticides; and 2,5-dichlorophenol is a major metabolite of 1,4-dichlorobenzene, which is used in moth balls and room deodorizers (Crinnion 2010; HSDB 2016) .
