The quantitative contributions of various amino acid residues to hapten binding in the Fv fragment of the antibody McPC603 were investigated by site-directed mutagenesis. The three-dimensional structure of the Fab' fragment of McPC603 is known to atomic resolution. The haptens phosphocholine, choline sulfate, 3-(trimethylammonium)propane-1-sulfonate, 4-(trimethylammonium)butyric acid, and 4-(trimethyl-ammonium)butyric acid methyl ester were tested for binding. It was found that the phosphate group but not the sulfate and sulfonate groups, interacts with the hydroxyl group of Tyr33(h). The required positive charge for the binding of the phosphate must be contributed by Arg52(h); a lysine at this position or an additional positive charge at position 33(h) abolishes the binding to a phosphocholine affinity column. The interaction between Tyr100(l) and Glu35(h) was found to be essential and could not be functionally replaced by any other pair of residues tested. Binding of the quaternary ammonium ion needs a negative charge; it can reside in either Asp97(l) or Asp101(h), but both together prevent binding to the affinity column. These data may serve as the basis for the development of quantitative treatments of antigen-antibody interactions.
Abstract Pseudomonas aeruginosa elaborates a specific choline sulfatase when grown in the presence of choline sulfate. The cell induces the enzyme to three distinct levels depending on whether the carbon, nitrogen, or sulfur is being utilized. The enzyme was partially purified by ammonium sulfate fractionation and DEAE-cellulose chromatography. The enzyme has a temperature optimum of 30 ° and a pH optimum of 7.5. It is sensitive to several metal ions, pCMB and NEM and is activated by dithiothreitol and mercaptoethanol. The molecular weight by gel filtration was found to be 175,000. The K m for choline sulfate is 1.4 × 10 −3 m . The kinetics of the reaction were studied and choline and several analogs were found to be linear uncompetitive inhibitors with K i = 2 − 3.5 × 10 −4 m. Choline phosphate and betaine were found to be competitive inhibitors ( K i = 2 × 10 −3 m). No reversal of the reaction or exchange with [ 14 C]choline or 35 SO 4 2− could be demonstrated. The kinetics are consistent with the reaction being an Ordered Bi Bi mechanism with water being the second substrate to bind to the enzyme, and choline being the first product to leave. A general base catalysis mechanism is proposed without the involvement of an enzyme-SO 4 2− covalent intermediate.
An artificial pyritic coal spoil was prepared and examined over a period of 1.5 years for changes in the population of various physiological varieties of bacteria and also for mineral leaching. Heterotrophic bacteria were the first to dominate the spoil, acquiring a population of 10(7) cells per g within 2 weeks. Bacteria capable of utilizing choline sulfate as the sole source of energy comprised approximately 1% of the total heterotrophic bacteria. Sulfur-oxidizing autotrophic bacteria (Thiobacillus) and finally iron-oxidizing bacteria (Thiobacillus ferrooxidans) increased in the population, the latter becoming the dominant species where acidity was greatest. Partition of species paralleled partition of acidity in the spoil. Maximum acidity (pH 2.6) and maximum population of T. ferrooxidans (greater than 10(7) cells per g) occurred at the summit. Molds (notably, Aspergillus), algae (Chlorococcales, Oscillatoria, Navicula), cilliated and flagellated protozoa, an arthropod (Podura aquatica), and a moss (aberrant Physcomitrium pyriforme) were observed. The mineral salts leached from the spoil, in decreasing order, were the sulfates of magnesium (predominantly hexahydrite), calcium (gypsum), sodium, aluminum (alunogenite), and iron.
Choline sulfate, the sulfate ester of choline, is widely distributed in plant species and tissues. It constitutes up to one-third of the labeled metabolic products of radiosulfate uptake by roots of sulfur-deficient corn, barley, and sunflower plants. This neutral, nonabsorbed zwitterion appears to be a useful reservoir for sulfur in plants.
The changes in the structure and dynamics of collagen treated with two different classes of ionic liquids, bis-choline sulfate (CS) and 1-butyl-3-methyl imidazolium dimethyl phosphate (IDP), have been studied at the molecular and fibrillar levels. At the molecular level, circular dichroic studies revealed an increase in molar ellipticity values for CS when compared with native collagen, indicating cross-linking, albeit pronounced conformational changes for IDP were witnessed indicating denaturation. The impedance was analyzed to correlate the conformational changes with the hydration dynamics of protein. Changes in the dielectric properties of collagen observed upon treatment with CS and IDP reported molecular reorientation in the surrounding water milieu, suggesting compactness or destabilization of the collagen. This was further confirmed by proton transverse NMR relaxation time measurements, which demonstrated that the water mobility changes in the presence of the ILs. At the fibrillar level, differential scanning calorimetry thermograms for rat tail tendon collagen fibers treated with CS show a 5 °C increase in denaturation temperature, suggesting imparted stability. On the contrary, a significant temperature decrease was noticed for IDP, indicating the destabilization of collagen fibers. The obtained results clearly indicate that the changes in the secondary structure of protein are due to the changes in the hydration dynamics of collagen upon interaction with ILs. Thus, this study on the interaction of collagen with ionic liquids unfolds the propensity of ILs to stabilize or destabilize collagen depending on the changes invoked at the molecular level in terms of structure and dynamics of protein, which also got manifested at the fibrillar level.
Optimal conditions for growth, development or reproduction in many organisms often depend on association with a second unrelated organism in either a parasitic, mutualistic or protocooperative relationship. Several examples of such natural relationships between plants and a second organism which allows them to adapt and survive in a particular environment have been described. The lichen results from a symbiotic association in which the algal cells supply photosynthates to the fungus and the fungus absorbs moisture and shields the algae from intense light, allowing both to exist together in an otherwise unfavorable environment (Ahmadjian 1967). Rhizobia aid legume growth through symbiotic nitrogen fixation (Nester, Kosuge 1981). Spirillum lipoferum (Smith et al. 1976) and Azospirillum brasilene (Kapulnik et al. 1981) function in a similar manner in association with grasses. Pseudomonas interacts with plant roots, inducing a mechanism for choline sulfate uptake (Nissen, 1973).
The mycelial mat of Asperillus niger grown for 60hr on the cellophane-agar was briefly labeled with 35S-sulfate, and the change in specific activities of choline sulfate and sulfur-protein contained in the mat was followed during the course of its cultivation on the "cold" medium.From the characteristic pattern of the change in the specific activities, it was inferred that the biosyntheses of these S-compounds take place on, at least, two sites in the upper and lower layers of the mycelial mat.Proteins obtained from the upper layer was found to be richer in cyst(e)ine content than that from the lower layer. The cellular differentation of mold colonies during sporulation was discussed with reference to the specific nature of the chemical composition of conidia.
Choline sulfate is a major product of sulfate metabolism in plants (9,13). This sulfate ester accounts for up to one-third of the radioactivity in the soluble organic compounds formed after uptake of radiosulfate by plant roots. The analogous choline phosphate occurs in higher plants and is involved in phosphate transport (8). No similar role for choline sulfate as a carrier for sulfate could be detected, but the uptake of choline sulfate was found to be the result of active transport. Studies on the active transport of choline sulfate by excised barley roots are described in this paper. Barley roots have been widely used in active transport studies and form considerable amounts of choline sulfate. The uptake of this zwitterion was studied over a wide range of concentrations in an attempt to elucidate the nature of its dual uptake mechanism. A number of structural analogues of choline sulfate were synthesized and tested as competitive inhibitors of the active transport of choline sulfate. These inhibitor studies were designed to utilize some of the concepts developed in the course of the intensive investigation of the active surface of acetylcholinesterase (6,18). A preliminary report has appeared (10).
Choline sulfate is a major product of sulfate metabolism in plants (9, 13) . This sulfate ester accounts for up to one-third of the radioactivity in the soluble organic compounds fornmed after uptake of radliosulfate by plant roots. The analogous choline phosphate occurs in higher plants and is involved in phosphate transport (8) . No similar role for choline sulfate as a carrier for sulfate could be detected, but the uptake of choline sulfate was found to be the result of active transport.
Studies on the active transport of choline sulfate by excised barley roots are described in this paper. Barley roots have been widely used in active transport studies and form considerable amounts of choline sulfate. The uptake of this zwitterion was studied over a wide range of concentrations in an attempt to elucidate the nature of its dual uptake mechanism. A number of structural analogues of choline sulfate were synthesized and tested as competitive inhibitors of the active transport of choline sulfate. These inhibitor studies were designed to utilize sonme of the concepts developed in the course of the intensive investigation of the active surface of acetylcholinesterase (6, 18). A preliminary report has appeared (10).
Barley seels (Hordeumii vulgare L.) were germinate(l and seedlings grown in aerate(d solutions of 2 X 10' -is Ca(NO)42under the condlitions described by Epstein (3). After 7 days the roots were excised, rinsed, and used in the uptake experiments. Samples of roots weighing 1 to 2 g (fresh weight) were transferred to test tubes with 50 ml of aerate(l experimental solutions containing 5 X 10 AI Ca(NO:) 2. After 3 hours the experiment was termlinated by decanting the experimental solutions and rinsing twice with distillecl water. The roots were then placedI in a desorption solution of 5 X 10 AI Ca(NOj)2 for 1 hour (7). For assay of the radioactivity in the roots we (levelopecl a procedure for liquid scintillation counting of the intact, dried roots (11). "Carrier-free" choline sulfate-S35 was synthesizedI according to the method of Segel and Johnson (12). For the uptake experinsents sufficient activity of the "carrier-free" choline sulfate was added to solutions of nonradioactive choline sulfate to give less than 3 % counting error in the final assay of the roots. Choline sulfate and its sulfate ester analogues were made by esterification of the corresponding amino alcohols with sulfuric acid (1, 14). The esters were recrystallized from aqueous ethanol. The infrared spectra corresponded to spectra of other nmonoalkyl sulfates. The other inhibitors used xvere ohtained comnmercially.
The uptake of choline sulfate was first studlied over a range of concentrations, from 10-7 AI to 10-l'I. The results for the range 3 X 10-6 WI to 10-1 NM are shown in figure 1. Choline sulfate is apparently taken up by 2 mechanisnms. One mechanisns accounts for the uptake of choline sulfate at low substrate concentrations, while the other dominates at higher coIncentrations. The kinetics of the 2 mechanismls were resolved by the methods used by Epstein et al. (4) for potassium absorption by barley roots. A Lineweaver-Burk plot was made for the low-range mlechanisnm (fig 2) . The straight line was (letermiined by the method of least squares, omitting the point corresponding to 3 X 10-4 Ni because some uptake hy the high-range mlechanism occurs at this concentration. From this plot the values for Vnmax, and Km, were calculated and inserted into the first ternm of the Michaelis-Menten edluation:
Abstract Supported ionic liquids (SILs) have attracted rising interest and the subject of active research in the last decades due to the diversified range of applications and yet reports on ILs is still rapidly increasing. This work reports a choline sulfate ionic liquid supported on fascinating and highly stable porous graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4) nanosheets as an inexpensive and an environmentally friendly reusable ionic catalyst in organic synthesis typically requiring a harmful organic solvent and highly toxic acids. g-C3N4@SO3Ch was prepared by mixing sulfonic acid functionalized graphitic carbon nitride nanosheets (g-C3N4@SO3H) with choline hydroxide or via a novel approach. The introduction of a choline sulfate could significantly enlarge specific surface areas with rich reaction sites and suppressed the recombination of sheets. This work provides a new way to improve the chemical property of g-C3N4 along with the recyclability of the ionic liquid. g-C3N4@SO3Ch (IL/g-C3N4) offers an effective, reusable, inexpensive, environmentally friendly and low-cost catalyst for the synthesis of 3,4-dihydropyrimidin-2 (1H)-ones, 2,3-dihydroquinazolin-4 (1H)-ones and bisindolylmethanes in good to excellent yields. The prepared catalyst synthesized compounds were well characterized by different techniques such as FT-IR, XRD, SEM, EDX and TGA.
Studies were madeon theeffect oftyramine on arylsulfatase synthesis in mutantsofAerobacter aerogenesATCC 9621deficient inenzymes involved in tyramine degradation. Asshownpreviously, some sulfur compounds, suchas inorganic sulfate, repressed enzyme synthesis while others, suchas methionine, didnot.Tyramine caused derepression ofenzyme synthesis, whichisrepressed byinorganic sulfate. Thepresent workshowed that, although tyramine readily derepressed arylsulfatase synthesis, metabolites oftyramine ineither the wild-type or mutantstrains didnot,so thatthederepression isduetothe particular structure oftyramine. Kinetic studies on thecells indicated thatincorporation ofsulfur into protein andenzyme synthesis occurred on supply ofeither a sulfur compound, whichdidnotcause repression, or oftyramine, whichcaused derepression, irrespective ofthetypeofsulfur compound added, if any. Previously, HaradaandSpencer (12)reported thatAerobacter aerogenes ATCC9621 synthesized arylsulfatase whengrownonmediumcontaining methionine, taurine, cysteate, orcholine sulfate asthesulfur source, andthat enzymesynthesis wasrepressed whensulfate, sulfite, thiosulfate, cysteine-S-sulfonate, orcys
Transmural potential difference (PD) and resistance (R) changes after luminal or serosal instillation of K+ were determined under various conditions in chambered preparations of frog gastric mucosae. Potassium selectivity of the luminal membrane is indicated by the rapid reversal of the inverted PD of mucosae bathed in NaCl-free, choline sulfate (Ch2SO4)-Ringer on the serosal side and unbuffered hypertonic Ch2SO4 solution on the luminal side on luminal K+ instillation. The delta PD responses are significantly attenuated, however, in histamine-stimulated mucosae bathed in hypotonic or in burimamide-inhibited mucosae bathed in hyper- and hypotonic luminal media, which suggests that the K+ selectivity of the luminal membrane resides largely in the tubular cell apical membrane. Imposing a serosal-to-luminal transmucosal K+ gradient in both histamine-stimulated and omeprazole-inhibited mucosae also reversed the normal orientation of PD but not in those inhibited with burimamide. In the latter, the PD inversion was attenuated but maintained its normal orientation. These data suggest that burimamide, but not omeprazole, acts by blocking luminal membrane K+ conductance. The inverted PD in mucosae bathed in Cl-free media may thus be due partially or fully to K+ diffusion driven by the cell-to-lumen K+ gradient via the luminal K+ conductance pathway. These findings have implications for the controversy surrounding the postulated electrogenicity of the gastric proton pump.
Neurospora crassa can use choline-O-sulfate as its sole sulfur source; the utilization of this compound involves its entry followed by intracellular hydrolysis. Neurospora possesses a transport system for the uptake of choline-O-sulfate which is specific for the sulfate ester and does not transport, nor is it inhibited by, either choline or inorganic sulfate. Mutant strains of Neurospora that are unable to transport or grow on inorganic sulfate can, nevertheless, utilize choline-O-sulfate for growth and transport the intact organic sulfate at a normal rate. Methionine, which represses a number of enzymes of sulfur anabolism, also represses the synthesis of the specific permease for choline-O-sulfate. A regulatory gene, cys-3, which controls the synthesis of choline sulfatase, aryl sulfatase, and several other related enzymes, also regulates the synthesis of the choline sulfate permease. Evidence is presented that the activity of choline sulfate permease is also regulated by a turnover process, the transport system having a functional half-life of approximately 3 hr.
Summary A new class of choline esters with mydriatic and cycloplegic properties is reported. For routine examinations, di-n-butyl-carbamylcholine sulfate produces cycloplegia and mydriasis comparable in degree to that produced by homatropine; however, the new compound has the advantage of producing a shorter period of visual disability.
Abstract Choline sulfate (ester) was isolated from the marine imperfect fungus Zalerion maritimum (Linder) Anastasiou, and was subsequently revealed by comparative thin-layer chromatography in eighteen additional isolates of marine fungi including Z. maritimum and ten species of Ascomycetes. The possible role of choline sulfate in the metabolism of marine fungi is discussed in the light of its demonstrated roles in terrestrial higher fungi. The IR and NMR spectral characteristics of choline sulfate (ester) are reported for the first time.
An artificial pyritic coal spoil was prepared and examined over a period of 1.5 years for changes in the population of various physiological varieties of bacteria and also for mineral leaching. Heterotrophic bacteria were the first to dominate the spoil, acquiring a population of 10(7) cells per g within 2 weeks. Bacteria capable of utilizing choline sulfate as the sole source of energy comprised approximately 1% of the total heterotrophic bacteria. Sulfur-oxidizing autotrophic bacteria (Thiobacillus) and finally iron-oxidizing bacteria (Thiobacillus ferrooxidans) increased in the population, the latter becoming the dominant species where acidity was greatest. Partition of species paralleled partition of acidity in the spoil. Maximum acidity (pH 2.6) and maximum population of T. ferrooxidans (greater than 10(7) cells per g) occurred at the summit. Molds (notably, Aspergillus), algae (Chlorococcales, Oscillatoria, Navicula), cilliated and flagellated protozoa, an arthropod (Podura aquatica), and a moss (aberrant Physcomitrium pyriforme) were observed. The mineral salts leached from the spoil, in decreasing order, were the sulfates of magnesium (predominantly hexahydrite), calcium (gypsum), sodium, aluminum (alunogenite), and iron.
An artificial pyritic coal spoil was prepared and examined over a period of 1.5 years for changes in the population of various physiological varieties of bacteria and also for mineral leaching. Heterotrophic bacteria were the first to dominate the spoil, acquiring a population of 107 cells per g within 2 weeks. Bacteria capable of utilizing choline sulfate as the sole source of energy comprised approximately 1% of the total heterotrophic bacteria. Sulfur-oxidizing autotrophic bacteria (Thiobacillus) and fmally iron-oxidizing bacteria (Thiobacillus ferrooxidans) increased in the population, the latter becoming the dominant species where acidity was greatest. Partition of species paralleled partition of acidity in the spoil.
Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) meliloti is a nitrogen-fixing α-proteobacterium able to biosynthesize the osmoprotectant glycine betaine from choline sulfate through a metabolic pathway that starts with the enzyme choline-O-sulfatase. This protein seems to be widely distributed in microorganisms and thought to play an important role in their sulfur metabolism. However, only crude extracts with choline sulfatase activity have been studied. In this work, Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) meliloti choline-O-sulfatase was obtained in a high degree of purity after expression in Escherichia coli. Gel filtration and dynamic light scattering experiments showed that the recombinant enzyme exists as a dimer in solution. Using calorimetry, its catalytic activity against its natural substrate, choline-O-sulfate, gave a k cat=2.7×10-1 s-1 and a K M=11.1 mM. For the synthetic substrates p-nitrophenyl sulfate and methylumbelliferyl sulfate, the k cat values were 3.5×10-2 s-1 and 4.3×10-2 s-1, with K M values of 75.8 and 11.8 mM respectively. The low catalytic activity of the recombinant sulfatase was due to the absence of the formylglycine post-translational modification in its active-site cysteine 54. Nevertheless, unmodified Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) meliloti choline-O-sulfatase is a multiple-turnover enzyme with remarkable catalytic efficiency.
Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) meliloti is a nitrogen-fixing α-proteobacterium able to biosynthesize the osmoprotectant glycine betaine from choline sulfate through a metabolic pathway that starts with the enzyme choline-O-sulfatase. This protein seems to be widely distributed in microorganisms and thought to play an important role in their sulfur metabolism. However, only crude extracts with choline sulfatase activity have been studied. In this work, Ensifer (Sinorhizobium) meliloti choline-O-sulfatase was obtained in a high degree of purity after expression in Escherichia coli. Gel filtration and dynamic light scattering experiments showed that the recombinant enzyme exists as a dimer in solution. Using calorimetry, its catalytic activity against its natural substrate, choline-O-sulfate, gave a k cat ¼2.7 Â 10 À 1 s À 1 and a K M ¼11.1 mM. For the synthetic substrates p-nitrophenyl sulfate and methylumbelliferyl sulfate, the k cat values were 3.5 Â 10 À 2 s À 1 and 4.3 Â 10 À 2 s À 1
Isolated bladders of Pseudemys turtles, interposed between choline sulfate Ringer solution on the mucosa and choline sulfate Ringer solution with HCO3− (20 mM) on the serosa were short-circulated in a chamber. Mucosal concentration of HCO3− was varied from 0.2 to 20 mM in the presence and in the absence of acetazolamide. ::: ::: Both in the presence and in the absence of acetazolamide, spontaneous trans-bladder potential and short-circuiting current (Isc) increased with increasing mucosal HCO3− concentration. When Isc was plotted as a function of mucosal HCO3− concentration, it exhibited Michaelis-Menten-like characteristics. ::: ::: In the absence of acetazolamide, the saturation current and half maximal concentration of mucosal HCO3− were 1.98 mA/g dry tissue and 2.4 mM HCO3−, respectively. In the presence of 0.1 mM acetazolamide, they were 0.37 mA/g dry tissue and 3.15 mM HCO3−, and in the presence of 0.2 mM acetazolamide they were 0.24 mA/g dry tissue and 3.89 mM HCO3−. ::: ::: The changes in the half maximal concentration of mucosal HCO3− were not significant. Hence, acetazolamide appears to inhibit HCO3− transport in a manner analogous to noncompetitive inhibition. Data further indicate that the inhibition of HCO3− transport by acetazolamide is reversible. ::: ::: Analysis of data from experiments carried out in the absence of acetazolamide suggest the existence of a second HCO3− transport process having a saturation current of 1.13 mA/g dry tissue and a half maximal concentration of 0.17 mM HCO3− in the mucosal fluid.
An efficient and straightforward approach to the synthesis of 2,3-dihydroquinazolin-4(1H)-one from 2-aminobenzamide and carbonyl compounds (aldehydes and ketones) using biocompatible choline sulfate-based acidic ionic liquid as a cheap and readily available catalyst in water has been developed. Various 2,3-dihydroquinazolin-4(1H)-one have been prepared using low-cost and environmental friendly solvent and catalyst in good to excellent yields in a shorter reaction time. The choline sulfate catalyst was prepared using a simple method from readily available starting material and was confirmed by 1H NMR, FTIR, and TGA. The ease of the product separation without organic solvent and column chromatography and the reusability of the acidic ionic liquid catalyst makes this method economically affordable for large-scale synthesis.
The hot water extract of conidiospores of Aspergillus niger was previously found to contain two types of sulfur compounds (1). Major one of these compounds (Substance A) was isolated from the extract and obtained in a crystalline form. This was identified as choline sulfate by chemical and physical methods. The amount of this sulfate ester in the spores was found to be exceedingly large, being as much as 1.5 per cent of the dry weight of the spores. It is suggested that this substance acts as a store of reserve sulfur in the spores of this fungus.
Pseudomonas sp. strain ATCC19151 is a natural isolate from sewage with the ability to degrade detergents. Genes encoding potential choline sulfatase (betC), substrate-binding ABC transporter protein (betD), sulfate transporter (betE), and divergent putative transcriptional regulator (betR) were cloned and characterized from strain ATCC19151. In silico analysis revealed that (1) the BetC protein belongs to alkPPc superfamily and shares CXPXR sequence with the cysteine sulfatases of group I, (2) BetR belongs to the LysR family of transcriptional regulators, (3) BetD is part of the PBPb superfamily of periplasmic and membrane-associated proteins, and (4) BetE is a permease and contains STAS domain. Insertional mutagenesis and genetic complementation show that betC gene encodes a functional choline sulfatase. Analysis of the betC (P(betC)) and betR (P(betR)) promoters revealed that they are inducible. BetR activates betC and betR transcription in the presence of choline sulfate, whilst in the absence of choline sulfate, BetR represses its own transcription. It was further established that BetR directly binds to betC-betR intergenic region in vitro, with higher affinity in the presence of choline sulfate as cofactor. Transcription of betC and betR was not induced in the presence of high concentration of NaCl.
The review of the red algal theory for ancestry of Ascomycetes and Basidiomycetes published 10 years ago by the author is updated. Criticisms are answered and new data are discussed. The production of choline sulfate, lenthionine and lanosol are added to the biochemical similarities between red algae and higher fungi. Distribution of polyols is shown to be in favour of the origin of higher fungi from parasitic red algae. As predicted, NADP-linked glutamate dehydrogenase has been found in red algae, and additional reports of chitin in various algae have been published. New supporting data come from the ultrastructure of red algae: mitosis outside the Ceramiales and ultrastructure of vegetative cells and tetrasporocysts of Corallinaceae. On the other hand, the discovery of proplastids in Holmsella makes it less fungus-like. However, no decisive argument has yet been produced for or against the theory. Further light should be expected from protein and nucleic acid sequences. Promising partial sequences of cytochrome c have indeed been published for red algae but the published 5 S ribosomal RNA sequences have not proven relevant to the problem. Sequences of the slower-evolving large rRNA and cytochrome c of red algae could provide convincing evidence and are urgently needed.
Barley roots take up choline sulfate constitutively via 3 separate, homogeneous mechanisms which obey Michaelis-Menten kinetics and have, respectively, low, high, and very high affinity for the sulfate ester. Leaf slices possess only the low-and the high-affinity mechanism. These are both inhibited by dini-trophenol and NaF but are differently affected by solute analogues. Uptake via the high-affinity mechanism is active; the low-affinity mechanism has also characteristics of facilitated diffusion.
The natriferic and hydroosmotic responses to vasopressin (ADH) of the isolated toad bladder were studied as a function of the serosal bath NaCl concentration. Bladders were preincubated in Ringer's solution containing equiosmotic substitutions of mannitol, choline chloride, or choline sulfate for NaCl. Their hydroosmotic and natriferic responses to ADH were measured in NaCl Ringer's solution. Bladders previously bathed on their serosal surface with mannitol had a markedly diminished hydroosmotic response, whereas the natriferic response of these bladders was essentially normal. Similarly, preincubation with either choline chloride or sulfate also inhibited the hydroosmotic response, although the decline was substantially less than that with mannitol. Preincubation with mannitol also inhibited the hydroosmotic response to dibutyryl cAMP. Therefore, the isosmotic substitution of serosal bath NaCl with mannitol decreases primarily the hydroosmotic response to ADH at a post-AMP step. The natriferic effect of the hormone remains essentially intact under these conditions. Different compartments (or cell types) appear to regulate the action of ADH on sodium and on water transport in this tissue because of the selective effects of preincubation with low NaCl Ringer's solution on the hydroosmotic and natriferic responses to ADH.
UNLABELLED ::: The genomes of sulfate-reducing bacteria remain poorly characterized, largely due to a paucity of experimental data and genetic tools. To meet this challenge, we generated an archived library of 15,477 mapped transposon insertion mutants in the sulfate-reducing bacterium Desulfovibrio alaskensis G20. To demonstrate the utility of the individual mutants, we profiled gene expression in mutants of six regulatory genes and used these data, together with 1,313 high-confidence transcription start sites identified by tiling microarrays and transcriptome sequencing (5' RNA-Seq), to update the regulons of Fur and Rex and to confirm the predicted regulons of LysX, PhnF, PerR, and Dde_3000, a histidine kinase. In addition to enabling single mutant investigations, the D. alaskensis G20 transposon mutants also contain DNA bar codes, which enables the pooling and analysis of mutant fitness for thousands of strains simultaneously. Using two pools of mutants that represent insertions in 2,369 unique protein-coding genes, we demonstrate that the hypothetical gene Dde_3007 is required for methionine biosynthesis. Using comparative genomics, we propose that Dde_3007 performs a missing step in methionine biosynthesis by transferring a sulfur group to O-phosphohomoserine to form homocysteine. Additionally, we show that the entire choline utilization cluster is important for fitness in choline sulfate medium, which confirms that a functional microcompartment is required for choline oxidation. Finally, we demonstrate that Dde_3291, a MerR-like transcription factor, is a choline-dependent activator of the choline utilization cluster. Taken together, our data set and genetic resources provide a foundation for systems-level investigation of a poorly studied group of bacteria of environmental and industrial importance. ::: ::: ::: IMPORTANCE ::: Sulfate-reducing bacteria contribute to global nutrient cycles and are a nuisance for the petroleum industry. Despite their environmental and industrial significance, the genomes of sulfate-reducing bacteria remain poorly characterized. Here, we describe a genetic approach to fill gaps in our knowledge of sulfate-reducing bacteria. We generated a large collection of archived, transposon mutants in Desulfovibrio alaskensis G20 and used the phenotypes of these mutant strains to infer the function of genes involved in gene regulation, methionine biosynthesis, and choline utilization. Our findings and mutant resources will enable systematic investigations into gene function, energy generation, stress response, and metabolism for this important group of bacteria.
ABSTRACT The genomes of sulfate-reducing bacteria remain poorly characterized, largely due to a paucity of experimental data and genetic tools. To meet this challenge, we generated an archived library of 15,477 mapped transposon insertion mutants in the sulfate-reducing bacterium Desulfovibrio alaskensis G20. To demonstrate the utility of the individual mutants, we profiled gene expression in mutants of six regulatory genes and used these data, together with 1,313 high-confidence transcription start sites identified by tiling microarrays and transcriptome sequencing (5= RNA-Seq), to update the regulons of Fur and Rex and to confirm the predicted regulons of LysX, PhnF, PerR, and Dde_3000, a histidine kinase. In addition to enabling single mutant investigations, the D. alaskensis G20 transposon mutants also contain DNA bar codes, which enables the pooling and analysis of mutant fitness for thousands of strains simultaneously. Using two pools of mutants that represent insertions in 2,369 unique protein-coding genes, we demonstrate that the hypothetical gene Dde_3007 is required for methionine biosynthesis. Using comparative genomics, we propose that Dde_3007 performs a missing step in methionine biosynthesis by transferring a sulfur group to O-phosphohomoserine to form homocysteine. Additionally, we show that the entire choline utilization cluster is important for fitness in choline sulfate medium, which confirms that a functional microcompartment is required for choline oxidation. Finally, we demonstrate that Dde_3291, a MerR-like transcription factor, is a choline-dependent activator of the choline utilization cluster. Taken together, our data set and genetic resources provide a foundation for systems-level investigation of a poorly studied group of bacteria of environmental and industrial importance.
Summary Removal of sodium from the frog gastric mucosa results in an inhibition of H+ secretion and PD, short circuit current, Cl- flux with a rise in the resistance. Choline sulfate experiments show an inverted PD with low hydrogen ion rates or 0 PD with 0 hydrogen ion rates. In some experiments in choline chloride acid secretion occurred in the presence of a 0 PD and this secretion appears likely to be by a unitary mechanism.
The ability of bacteria to cause rapid uptake of choline sulfate in plants, i.e., effectiveness, was studied using Pseudomonas tolaasii and excised roots of barley (Hordeum vulgare L.). Once effective, bacteria remained so after being killed by treatments which cause little damage to their outer structure. However, effectiveness was destroyed by disruption of the cell wall, protein reagents, a mild heat treatment or removal of Mg2+. Effective bacteria adsorbed choline sulfate. This adsorption had characteristics similar to those of bacterial effectiveness (magnesium requirement, high substrate specificity). These results indicate that a proteinaceous structure on the bacterial surface binds and, somehow, transfers choline sulfate to the plant.
In the thiocholine method of Koelle as previously described (17), the enzymatic reaction step leads to the formation of crystalline deposits. These have been identified as Cu·thiocholine sulfate. The subsequent ammonium sulfide treatment aiming at the conversion of Cu·thiocholine to CuS implies that the previous crystals become dissolved and replaced by amorphous precipitates. The environmental and other operating factors in this multi-step method are discussed.
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the chemical constituents from the cultured mycelia of a fungus Cephalosporium which accelerate the growth of plant. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: The constituents were isolated by column chromatography and identified by advanced physical and spectral analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: Eleven compounds including 3-isopropyl-6-(1-methylpropyl) piperazine-2,5-dione(I), choline sulfate(II), 2-[(2-hydroxy tetracosanoyl) amino]-1,3,4-octadecatriol(III) were isolated and identified. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Compound I, II were isolated from Cephalosporium genus for the first time.
Experiments were performed on gastric mucosae of Rana pipiens with an in vitro method. Bathing both sides of the mucosae in Cl--free solutions resulted in an inverted potential difference (PD) (i.e., nutrient negative). Cimetidine in a concentration of 10(-4) or 10(-3) M in the nutrient solution gave a positive PD when the H+ secretory rate was zero or near zero and confirmed that the PD versus H+ rate was linear. the origins of the positive PD were examined by ion replacement, e.g., choline for Na+ in both solutions. When both solutions had 25 mM HCO(-)3 (i.e., no HCO(-)3 gradient), the difference in PD between choline sulfate and Na2SO4 solutions indicated a possible small active transport of Na+ from the secretory to nutrient side. Similar experiments indicated no active K+ transport. A residual PD occurred without Na+. With H+ rate zero, 100% O2, and no HCO(-)3, a base secretion of about 0.4 mueq.h-1.cm-2 was obtained in a direction to contribute to the positive PD. Active SO2(-)4 transport may occur.
Analyses of quaternary ammonium compounds in leaf and root tissues of halophytic Limonium spp. using fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry revealed that only 3 out of 21 spp. accumulated glycine betaine, the common angiosperm osmolyte. The 18 other spp. accumulated {beta}-alanine betaine instead. However, all the Limonium spp. studied accumulated choline-O-sulfate and their leaf disks metabolized ({sup 14}C) choline to choline-O-sulfate. Only the glycine betaine accumulators oxidized ({sup 14}C) choline to glycine betaine and only {beta}-alanine betaine accumulators converted {beta}-({sup 14}C)alanine to {beta}-alanine betaine. When {beta}-alanine betaine and glycine betaine accumulators were salinized with NaCl, the levels of their respective betaines and of choline sulfate were closely correlated with solute potential. Glycine betaine accumulators had less choline-O-sulfate than {beta}-alanine betaine accumulators and increasing the SO{sub 4}{sup 2}/Cl ratio in the medium increased choline-O-sulfate and caused a matching decrease in glycine betaine. Thus, it appears that {beta}-alanine betaine has replaced glycine betaine in most members of this genus, eliminating a possible competition between glycine betaine and choline-O-sulfate for choline.
Cell extracts of Pseudomonas C12B synthesized choline sulfate (COS) from SO42-, choline chloride, and ATP. However, most of the COS-forming activity was found in culture medium supernatants of this bacterium, and that which remained with the cells was cell wall-associated. Enzyme release was independent of the carbon and (or) sulfur source used for growth and was not suppressed by increasing the divalent cation concentration of the medium. The COS-synthesizing system was inhbited in vitro by L-cysteine (greater than or equal to 10(-3) mM), SO42- (greater than 0.1 mM), and choline chloride (greater than 0.1 M). L-Cysteine (0.1-5.0 mM) did not repress the synthesis of enzymes present in the system. COS formation from SO42- in vitro was increased 2.8-fold by 10 mM adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (APS) and 5-fold by 1 mM 3'-phosphoadenosine,5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) during a 4-h incubation period. APS (10 mM) also inhibited the incorporation of 35SO42- into COS. Culture supernatants incubated with Na235SO4 produced two 35S-labelled metabolites having electrophoretic mobilities similar to those exhibited by authentic APS and PAPS. The synthesis of these metabolites was also inhibited in vitro by unlabelled APS and by L-cysteine.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses atmospheric deposition as the major source of sulfur inputs for many forest ecosystems. Within forest ecosystems, both inorganic and organic forms of sulfur are found. The determination of sulfur constituents, especially organic forms, has often been defined operationally with the analytical procedures reviewed elsewhere. The major organic sulfur constituents are carbon-bonded sulfur, including some amino acids, and ester sulfates such as choline sulfates and sulfated thioglycides. Carbon-bonded sulfur is generally the dominant organic form. There is often a close correspondence between organic carbon and organic sulfur concentrations in soils. The dominant form of inorganic sulfur is sulfate for most forest ecosystems. The actual form of sulfate may vary, thus affecting the lability of various sulfate pools in the soil. The lability ranges from: 1) highly mobile sulfate in the soil water, to 2) adsorbed sulfate, which can be desorbed, to 3) sulfate minerals, which may precipitate and redissolve, and to 4) sulfate, which is irreversibly retained. The capacity for sulfate retention varies among soils, but highly weathered soils with high concentrations of iron and aluminum sesquioxides are notable for their capacity to retain sulfate.
