Methional is a potent inducer of apoptosis in an interleukin 3-dependent murine lymphoid cell line BAF3 b0 when it is added to the culture medium. In these cells transfected with the bcl2 gene, BAF3 bcl2, the apoptotic-inducing activity of methional is dramatically reduced. The addition of disulfiram (an inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase) in order to reduce methional oxidation brought about an increase in apoptosis in BAF3 b0 but not in BAF3 bcl2 cells. In contrast, the addition of quercetin (an inhibitor of aldehyde reductase) in an attempt to diminish methional reduction increased apoptosis in both BAF3 b0 and BAF3 bcl2 cells. The extent of DNA fragmentation in BAF3 bcl2 cells approached that in BAF3 b0 cells in the presence of quercetin and exogenous methional, suggesting a defect in methional biosynthesis in BAF3 bcl2 cells. Direct evidence for this was obtained by measuring labelled methional in cells incubated with the sodium, salt of [U-14C]4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), the precursor of methional. The 80% decrease in labelled methional in BAF3 bcl2 compared with BAF3 b0 cells was accompanied by a concomitant rise in the transamination of [14C]MTOB to [14C]methionine in BAF3 bcl2 cells. Inhibition of the transaminase, however, by a synthetic transition-state-type compound, pyridoxal-L-methionine ethyl ester, induced apoptosis in BAF3 b0 but not in BAF3 bcl2 cells, confirming that the defect in BAF3 bcl2 cells was not in the transaminase itself but rather in the oxidative decarboxylation step MTOB --> methional. In addition, no evidence was obtained for the synthesis of [14C]malondialdehyde from [14C]methional in BAF3 bcl2 cells. As these cells show no deficiency in their content of reactive oxygen species compared with that of BAF3 b0 cells, they may possess some other defect in the beta-hydroxylase enzyme system itself.
The biosynthesis of methyl group donors such as S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM) and of cysteine (Cys) are essential for the synthesis of methylated elements of cell membrane structures such as phosphatidylcholine and of antioxidants such as S-methyl-a-ketobutyric acid (KMB), taurin and glutathione. These central functions are warranted by the homeostasis of methionine metabolism keeping the overall cellular antioxidative system at high fidelity. If this system is out of balance, a vast amount of pathological processes may be induced mainly concerning nervous disorders and atheromatous developments. Homocysteine (HC) as one member in this amphibolic process, how ever, posseses prooxidative functions which are biochemically distinct to the reactivities of cys teine (Preibisch et a l, 1993; Preibisch and Elstner, 1994) . As recently reported, the pyridoxalphosphate-glutamate Schiff-base has strongly antioxi dative properties preventing damage by organic hydroperoxides (Meyer et al, 1992) . In earlier papers (Konze and Elstner, 1976; Saran et al, A bbreviations: Cys, cysteine; HC, homocysteine; HCTL, homocysteinethiolactone; Cu, copper; KMB. 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid; Met, methionine; PyP, pyrid oxal phosphate; LDL, low density lipoprotein; TA, transaminase; DOPA, dihydroxyphenylalanine.
4-Methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB) is the final compound of the methionine salvage pathway that converts the polyamine byproduct methylthioadenosine to adenine and methionine. Here we find that MTOB inhibits growth of several human cell lines in a dose-dependent manner. Growth inhibition was specific for MTOB as we did not observe any inhibition with other chemically related compounds. MTOB treatment causes apoptosis and reduction of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity but not ODC mRNA. To determine if MTOB exerts its effects primarily via ODC inhibition, we compared the effects of MTOB with the ODC-specific inhibitor difluoromethylornithine (DFMO). We found that MTOB was a more potent inducer of apoptosis than DFMO, lacked activation of caspase 3/7, and was able to induce apoptosis in cells lacking p53. Our results show that MTOB-induced growth inhibition and apoptosis is not simply secondary due to ODC inhibition and implies that MTOB activates apoptosis via other mechanisms.
Abstract Glucosinolates are a group of sulfur-rich thioglucoside natural products common in the Brassicaceae and related plant families. The first phase in the formation of many glucosinolates involves the chain extension of the amino acid methionine. Additional methylene groups are inserted into the side chain of methionine by a three-step elongation cycle involving 2-oxo acid intermediates. This investigation demonstrated the first step of this chain elongation cycle in a partially-purified preparation from arugula ( Eruca sativa ). The 2-oxo acid derived from methionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid, was shown to condense with acetyl-CoA to form 2-(2′-methylthioethyl)malate. The catalyst, designated as a 2-(ω-methylthioalkyl)malate synthase, belongs to a family of enzymes that mediate the condensation of acyl-CoAs with 2-oxo acids, including citrate synthase of the citric acid cycle, and 2-isopropylmalate synthase of leucine biosynthesis. The 2-(ω-methylthioalkyl)malate synthase studied here shares properties with other enzymes of this class, but appears chromatographically distinct and is found only in extracts of plant species producing glucosinolates from chain-elongated methionine derivatives. Although the principal glucosinolates of arugula are formed from methionine that has undergone two rounds of chain elongation to form dihomomethionine, studies with substrates and substrate analogs of different chain lengths showed that the isolated enzyme is responsible only for the condensation step of the first round of elongation.
CtBP exerts its influence over gene expression through its interaction with transcription factors to create a transcriptional repression complex. CtBP binds to protein partners (including E1A and transcription factors) through a conserved PXDLS motif first identified in adenovirus E1A, uniting DNA-binding transcriptional factors with chromatin-modifying proteins to suppress gene transcription. 13 Furthermore, single amino acid mutations in this binding sequence or the CtBP-binding cleft can appreciably alter binding and subsequent gene repression. 14, 15 CtBP is a unique transcriptional corepressor, given that it contains a D-isomer 2-hydoxyacid dehydrogenase domain that uses coenzyme NADH/NAD+ to reduce or oxidize substrates. 16 The binding of the coenzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) or NADH induces dimerization and the transcriptional repressor activity of CtBP. However, NADH binds with a 100-fold higher affinity than NAD+ 17 and is much more effective in stimulating CtBP binding to its transcriptional partners. 18 This differential affinity may also be used by CtBP to respond to the redox state of the cell, linking the cellular NADH concentration and transcriptional activity of CtBP. 17 To date, two known molecules are able to reverse CtBPmediated transcription repression: 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), a methionine salvage pathway intermediate, 16 and CP61, a synthetic cyclic peptide designed to disrupt CtBP dimerization. 19 CP61 inhibits the homodimerization of CtBP2 with an IC 50 of 19 ± 4 µM but requires fusion to a cellpenetrating peptide for cell entry. 19 MTOB is a weak substrate for the dehydrogenase domain of CtBP with a maximum activity of approximately 100 nmol/min/mg protein. 16 Treatment with high concentrations (4 and 10 mM) of MTOB can prevent the recruitment of CtBPs to target promoters and antagonize CtBP transcriptional regulation. 12, 20 For example, in HCT116 colon cancer cells, MTOB can induce apoptosis through eviction of CtBP from the Bik promoter. 20 In addition, MTOB can shift breast cancer cells from a more mesenchymal to epithelial phenotype by preventing CtBP localization to target promoters. 12 Although high MTOB concentrations (mM) are required for inhibition of CtBP transcriptional repression, MTOB's clear antitumorigenic effect on cancer cells provides a proof of principle that small molecules could be developed to treat cancer regulated by CtBP activity.
The inhibition of D-amino acid oxidase contained in permeabilized cells of the yeast Trigonopsis variabilis by α-keto acids (pyruvic acid, phenylpyruvic acid and 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid), products of the transformation of the corresponding D-amino acids, was studied. In all cases, inhibition was of the mixed type and significant differences with respect to the inhibition shown by the enzyme from other sources such as pig kidney or the yeast Rhodotorula gracilis were observed. A study was also made of the thermal deactivation of the enzyme contained in permeabilized cells of T variabilis in the temperature range 30–50 °C in sodium phosphate and Tris hydroxylmethyl aminomethane + CaCl2 buffers. A deactivation mechanism with two steps in series is proposed to account for the variation in activity with time. The results suggest that the enzyme shows greater stability in phosphate buffer, with half-lives between 7.6 days at 30 °C and 8.6 h at 50 °C. Copyright © 2004 Society of Chemical Industry
Selenomethionine is as a good substrate as methionine for bovine liver glutamine transaminase (E.C. 2.6.1.15). Almost identical Km values for methionine, selenomethionine, 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid and 4-methylseleno-2-oxobutanoic acid have been obtained. Like for other enzymes, also for glutamine transaminase the substitution of the sulfur atom in a substrate molecule by a selenium one does not appreciably affect the enzyme affinity. Glutamine transaminase may thus be involved in selenomethionine catabolism.
S-(1,2-Dichlorovinyl)-L-homocysteine is a much more potent nephrotoxin than the corresponding cysteine S-conjugate S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (A. A. Elfarra, L. H. Lash, and M. W. Anders (1986) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83, 2667-2671). The objective of the present experiments was to test the hypothesis that the increased toxicity of homocysteine S-conjugates may be associated with the formation of the reactive metabolite 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, which may arise via a nonenzymatic retro-Michael elimination reaction from the 2-oxo acid metabolites of homocysteine S-conjugates. S-(2-Benzothiazolyl)-L-homocysteine, which was a substrate for purified bovine kidney cysteine conjugate beta-lyase (glutamine transaminase K) and whose metabolism was dependent on the presence of a 2-oxo acid, was cytotoxic in isolated rat kidney cells and was toxic to rat renal mitochondria, whereas the cysteine S-conjugate S-(2-benzothiazolyl)-L-cysteine had little effect. L-Methionine sulfoximine, L-canavanine, and the Michael acceptor methyl vinyl ketone were cytotoxic. The 2-hydroxy acid analogs of S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-homocysteine and 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-2-hydroxy-4-mercaptobutanoic acid and 2-hydroxy-3-butenoic acid, respectively, which are expected to be metabolized by rat renal L-2-hydroxy (L-amino) acid oxidase to yield 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, were also cytotoxic. To obtain evidence for the formation of 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid as a product of the metabolism of L-homocysteine S-conjugates and analogs, trapping experiments were conducted. S-(2-Benzothiazolyl)-L-homocysteine, S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-homocysteine, L-methionine sulfoximine, and L-canavanine were converted by snake venom L-amino acid oxidase to 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, which was trapped by the nucleophile methanethiol to yield 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid; the trapped product was derivatized with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine and was identified by its electronic absorption spectrum and by high-performance liquid chromatography. Similar trapping experiments conducted with kidney homogenates and purified beta-lyase were not successful. The data indicate that the bioactivation of homocysteine S-conjugates and analogs involves the enzymatic formation of the corresponding 2-oxo acids followed by a nonenzymatic retro-Michael elimination reaction to yield the Michael acceptor 2-oxo-3-butenoic acid, which may contribute to the observed cytotoxicity of homocysteine S-conjugates.
The gene encoding methylthioadenosine phosphorylase (MTAP), the initial enzyme in the methionine salvage pathway, is deleted in a variety of human tumors and acts as a tumor suppressor gene in cell culture (Christopher, S. A., Diegelman, P., Porter, C. W., and Kruger, W. D. (2002) Cancer Res. 62, 6639-6644). Overexpression of the polyamine biosynthetic enzyme ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) is frequently observed in tumors and has been shown to be tumorigenic in vitro and in vivo. In this paper, we demonstrate a novel regulatory pathway in which the methionine salvage pathway products inhibit ODC activity. We show that in Saccharomyces cerevisiae the MEU1 gene encodes MTAP and that Meu1delta cells have an 8-fold increase in ODC activity, resulting in large elevations in polyamine pools. Mutations in putative salvage pathway genes downstream of MTAP also cause elevated ODC activity and elevated polyamines. The addition of the penultimate salvage pathway compound 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid represses ODC levels in both MTAP-deleted yeast and human tumor cell lines, indicating that 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid acts as a negative regulator of polyamine biosynthesis. Expression of MTAP in MTAP-deleted MCF-7 breast adenocarcinoma cells results in a significant reduction of ODC activity and reduction in polyamine levels. Taken together, our results show that products of the methionine salvage pathway regulate polyamine biosynthesis and suggest that MTAP deletion may lead to ODC activation in human tumors.
4-Methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid is the direct precursor of methional, which is a potent inducer of apoptosis in a BAF3 murine lymphoid cell line which is interleukin-3 (IL3)-dependent. Cultures treated for 8 h with methional in the presence of IL3 show extensive DNA double-strand breaks on flow cytometric analysis, increases in DNA fragmentation as measured by the amount of non-sedimentable DNA present in the 30,000 g supernatant of cell lysates and the typical laddering pattern of multiples of 180 bp seen upon agarose gel electrophoresis. No such features of apoptosis were found in cells treated with 4-methylthio 2-oxobutanoic acid or propanal, suggesting that the simultaneous presence of the methylthio group on the propanal moiety is essential for apoptosis to take place. Methional is further metabolized in cells by two reactions: oxidation via aldehyde dehydrogenase to (methylthio)propionic acid or beta-hydroxylation to malondialdehyde. The formation of malondialdehyde from methional in vitro by chemical hydroxylation under the conditions of the Fenton reaction provides a mechanism for the beta-hydroxylation which takes place in vivo. During apoptosis induced by IL3 deprivation, the ratio of 2,4-DNPH MDA to 2,4-DNPH methional is 0.94 in cells in IL3- medium compared with 0.54 in cells in IL3+ medium. These results support a role of cellular methional and malondialdehyde in apoptosis.
Methionine is an amino acid, which can be obtained exogenously via the diet and/or endogenously, by either methylation of homocysteine or transamination of 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid, through the de novo and salvage pathways, respectively (1) . Evidence from two studies suggests that the majority of methionine produced through the salvage pathway is transformed to S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), whereas methionine synthesized through the de novo pathway by homocysteine methylation is predominantly used for protein synthesis (2, 3) . SAM, in its turn, is required for the formation of spermidine and spermine, which have been suggested to affect cell proliferation (4) , and is the primary methyl donor for DNA methylation, which regulates gene expression.
A majority of tumor cell lines are considered to be methionine-dependent because of their inability to grow in culture when methionine is replaced by its precursor, homocysteine. We have previously shown that this phenotype is not due to the incapacity to synthesize methionine from homocysteine but rather to a deficiency in the methionine salvage pathway, including 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (MTOB), which is transaminated into methionine. At low concentrations MTOB can restore normal growth of methionine-dependent cell lines in the absence of methionine. However, when MTOB concentrations are increased the cells undergo apoptosis. Methional, a metabolite of MTOB produced by the branched-chain oxo acid dehydrogenase complex, is a potent inducer of apoptosis in a murine lymphoid cell line. We suggest that the methionine-dependent phenotype is associated with a reduced content of methional, which behaves as a proapoptotic agent. For this reason, methionine-dependent cells have a relative survival advantage.
SummaryThe inhibition of D-Amino Acid Oxidase by α-Keto Acid, product of the reaction with D-Amino Acid is described for the first time. Inhibition of the enzyme by α-Keto-γ-Methiolbutyric Acid (4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid), product of the reaction with D-Methionine, was studied. From the results obtained it is deduced that inhibition is competitive with the substrate, the value of the inhibition constant being 1.85 10−3 M.
We have previously shown that methional, CH3SCH2CH2CHO, an endogeneous cellular aldehyderived by the oxidative decarboxylation of 4-methylthio-2-oxobutanoic acid (B), an intermediate in the methionine salvage pathway is a potent inducer of apoptosis when added to cultures of mouse lymphoid cells BAF3 bo (Quash et al., 1995). MTOB a00 μM was also capable of alleviating the methionine dependence shown by transfed cells (Ogier et al., 1993) because of its ready transamination to methionine, with gamine as amine donor (Backlund et al., 1982). Further, the inhibition of this MTOB transaminase with novel transition state inhibitors such as methionine-ethyl ester- pyridoxal induced apoptosis in BAF3 bo cells but not in BAF3 bcl2 which had been trans- fected with the human bcl2 gene (Roch et al., 1996). When the reasons for this refractory behaviour of BAF3 bcl2 were investigated using[14C] MTOB it was found that the production of [14methional from [14C] MTOB was reduced by 50% in BAF3 bcl2 and that even the direct addition of 600μM methional could not induce apoptosis in BAF3 bcl2 (Roch and al, 19 Methional is itself further metabolised intracellularly [Figure 1] by 3 pathways: reduction by aldehyde reductase (ALR) to methionol, oxidation by aldehyde dehydro- genaseLDH1) to methyl thiopropionic acid and β-hydroxylation to malondialdehyde. We therefore tried to see whether the inhibition of the reductase or the dehydrogenase would uce apoptosis in methional treated BAF3 bcl2 cells. Using quercitin as an inhibitor of ALR increase in apotosis was observed in BAF3 bcl2, but this result is to be interpreted with caution as quercitin also induces DNA strand breaks directly.With disulfiram as an ibitor of ALDH a small increase was seen but experimentation could be carried out only with low concentrations (< 100μM) due to the intrinsic toxicity of this compound. It was therefore clear that more specific inhibitors of ALDH were required to try to determine if ALDH played a role in the resistance to the apoptosis-inducing activity of methio.
