The enzyme, the phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) of Bacillus cereus, catalyzes the conversion of phosphonoacetaldehyde to phosphate and acetaldehyde. Previous studies have shown that phosphonatase labilizes the C-P bond in the substrate by forming a protonated Schiff base between an active site lysine and the aldehyde carbonyl group (Olsen, B. H.; Hepburn, T. W.; Moos, M.; Mariano, P. S.; Dunaway-Mariano, D. Biochemistry 1988, 27, 2229). In this article, we describe the synthesis of stereochemical probes of this C-P bond cleavage reaction
Abstract A variety of microorganisms have the ability to use phosphonic acids as sole sources of phosphorus. Here, a novel pathway for degradation of 2-aminoethylphosphonate in the bacterium Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 is proposed based on the analysis of the genome sequence. Gene deletion experiments confirmed the involvement of the locus containing phnW, phnA, and phnY genes in the conversion of 2-aminoethylphosphonate to inorganic phosphate. Biochemical studies of the recombinant PhnY and PhnA proteins verified their roles as phosphonoacetaldehyde dehydrogenase and phosphonoacetate hydrolase, respectively. This pathway is likely not limited to S. meliloti as suggested by the presence of homologous gene clusters in other bacterial genomes.
Abstract 1. 1. Incorporation of radioactivity from [ 32 P]orthophosphate and from[3 −14 C]-phosphoenolpyruvate into 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (AEPA) was demonstrated in cell-free preparations from Tetrahymena pyriformis GL. 2. 2. Free AEPA became labeled more rapidly than either lipid-bound AEPA or residual AEPA, and the label from [3 −14 C]phosphoenolpyruvate was preferentially incorporated into the phosphono carbon of AEPA. 3. 3. The rate of incorporation if 32 P from orthophosphate and of 14 C from phosphoenolpyruvate into AEPA was decreased to a much greater extent by phosphonoacetaldehyde than by 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid. 4. 4. Thus it appears that the major biosynthetic pathway to AEPA is a route through amination of phosphonoacetaldehyde.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) from Bacillus cereus catalyzes hydrolytic P−C bond cleavage of phosphonoacetaldehyde (Pald) via a Schiff base intermediate formed with Lys53. A single turnover requires binding of Pald to the active site of the core domain, closure of the cap domain containing the Lys53 over the core domain, and dissociation of the products following catalysis. The ligand binding and dissociation steps occur from the “open conformer” (domains are separated and the active site is solvent-exposed), while catalysis occurs from the “closed conformer” (domains are bound together and the active site is sequestered from solvent). To test the hypothesis that bound substrate stabilizes the closed conformer, thus facilitating catalysis, the rates of chemical modification of Lys53 in the presence and absence of inert substrate and/or product analogues were compared. Acetylation of Lys53 with 2,4-dinitrophenylacetate (DNPA) resulted in the loss of enzyme activity. The pseudo-first-order...
Abstract The Bacteroides fragilis capsular polysaccharide complex is the major virulence factor for abscess formation in human hosts. Polysaccharide B of this complex contains a 2-aminoethylphosphonate functional group. This functional group is synthesized in three steps, one of which is catalyzed by phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase. In this paper, we report the cloning and overexpression of the B. fragilis phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase gene (aepY), purification of the phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase recombinant protein, and the extensive characterization of the reaction that it catalyzes. The homotrimeric (41,184-Da subunit) phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase catalyzes (kcat = 10.2 ± 0.3 s–1) the decarboxylation of phosphonopyruvate (Km = 3.2 ± 0.2 μm) to phosphonoacetaldehyde (Ki = 15 ± 2 μm) and carbon dioxide at an optimal pH range of 7.0–7.5. Thiamine pyrophosphate (Km = 13 ± 2 μm) and certain divalent metal ions (Mg(II) Km = 82 ± 8 μm; Mn(II) Km = 13 ± 1 μm; Ca(II) Km = 78 ± 6 μm) serve as cofactors. Phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase is a member of the α-ketodecarboxylase family that includes sulfopyruvate decarboxylase, acetohydroxy acid synthase/acetolactate synthase, benzoylformate decarboxylase, glyoxylate carboligase, indole pyruvate decarboxylase, pyruvate decarboxylase, the acetyl phosphate-producing pyruvate oxidase, and the acetate-producing pyruvate oxidase. The Mg(II) binding residue Asp-260, which is located within the thiamine pyrophosphate binding motif of the α-ketodecarboxylase family, was shown by site-directed mutagenesis to play an important role in catalysis. Pyruvate (kcat = 0.05 s–1, Km = 25 mm) and sulfopyruvate (kcat ∼ 0.05 s–1; Ki = 200 ± 20 μm) are slow substrates for the phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase, indicating that this enzyme is promiscuous.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) catalyzes the hydrolytic P-C bond cleavage of phosphonoacetaldehyde (Pald) to form orthophosphate and acetaldehyde. The reaction proceeds via a Schiff-base intermediate formed between Lys-53 and the Pald carbonyl. The x-ray crystal structures of the wild-type phosphonatase complexed with Mg(II) alone or with Mg(II) plus vinylsulfonate (a phosphonoethylenamine analog) were determined to 2.8 and 2.4 A, respectively. These structures were used to determine the identity and positions of active site residues surrounding the Lys-53 ammonium group and the Pald carbonyl. These include Cys-22, His-56, Tyr-128, and Met-49. Site-directed mutagenesis was then employed to determine whether or not these groups participate in catalysis. Based on rate contributions, Tyr-128 and Cys-22 were eliminated as potential catalytic groups. The Lys-53 epsilon-amino group, positioned for reaction with the Pald carbonyl, forms a hydrogen bond with water 120. Water 120 is also within hydrogen bond distance of an imidazole nitrogen of His-56 and the sulfur atom of Met-49. Kinetic constants for mutants indicated that His-56 (1000-fold reduction in k(cat)/K(m) upon Ala substitution) and Met-49 (17,000-fold reduction in k(cat)/K(m) upon Leu substitution) function in catalysis of Schiff-base formation. Based on these results, it is proposed that a network of hydrogen bonds among Lys-53, water 120, His-56, and Met-49 facilitate proton transfer from Lys-53 to the carbinolamine intermediate. Comparison of the vinylsulfonate complex versus unliganded structures indicated that association of the cap and core domains is essential for the positioning of the Lys-53 for attack at the Pald carbonyl and that substrate binding at the core domain stabilizes cap domain binding.
Naturally occurring phosphonates return to the phosphate pool via the action of P-C bond lyases or hydrolases (for a recent review see Ref. 1). Simple alkylphosphonates (e.g. methylphosphonate) are processed by homolytic P-C bond cleavage catalyzed by a membrane-associated multienzyme complex called "C-P lyase" (2). ␤-Carbonoalkylphosphonates, which contain polarized P-C bonds, undergo heterolytic bond cleavage reactions catalyzed by phosphonohydrolases. Known phosphonohydrolases include phosphonoacetate hydrolase (3), phosphonopyruvate hydrolase (4), and the topic of this paper, phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) 1 (5). Phosphonatase catalyzes the dephosphonylation of phosphonoacetaldehyde (Pald) by using an active site amine (Lys-53) to convert the substrate aldehyde group to an iminium ion prior to P-C bond cleavage (Fig. 1) . The leaving group is the low energy, Lys-53-N⑀-ethylenamine. In earlier work, the Schiff-base formed between Lys-53 and the acetaldehyde product had been trapped and then identified by reduction of the iminium ion accumulated under steady-state conditions (6). Consistent with the role of the active site Lys-53 in Schiff-base formation, mutation to Arg resulted in total loss of catalytic activity (7).
Reaction of Bacillus cereus phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) with phosphonoacetaldehyde or acetaldehyde in the presence of NaBH4 resulted in complete loss of enzymatic activity. Treatment of phosphonatase with NaBH4 in the absence of substrate or product had no effect on catalysis. Inactivation of phosphonatase with [3H]NaBH4 and phosphonoacetaldehyde, NaBH4 and [14C]acetaldehyde, or NaBH4 and [2-3H]phosphonoacetaldehyde produced in each instance radiolabeled enzyme. The nature of the covalent modification was investigated by digesting the radiolabeled enzyme preparations with trypsin and by separating the tryptic peptides with HPLC. Analysis of the peptide fractions revealed that incorporation of the 3H- or 14C-radiolabel into the protein was reasonably selective for an amino acid residue found in a peptide fragment observed in each of the three trypsin digests. Sequence analysis of the 3H-labeled peptide fragment isolated from the digest of the [2-3H]phosphonoacetaldehyde/NaBH4-treated enzyme identified N epsilon-ethyllysine as the radiolabeled amino acid. The ability of the phosphonatase competitive inhibitor (Ki = 230 +/- 20 microM) acetonylphosphonate to protect the enzyme from phosphonoacetaldehyde/NaBH4-induced inactivation suggested that the reactive lysine residue is located in the enzyme active site. Comparison of the relative effectiveness of phosphonoacetaldehyde and acetaldehyde as phosphonatase inactivators showed that the N-ethyllysine imine that is reduced by the NaBH4 is derived from the corresponding N-(phosphonoethyl) imine. On the basis of these findings, a catalytic mechanism for for phosphonatase is proposed in which phosphonoacetaldehyde is activated for P-C bond cleavage by formation of a Schiff base with an active-site lysine. Accordingly, an N-ethyllsysine enamine rather than the high-energy acetaldehyde enolate anion is displaced from the phosphorus.
Abstract 1. 1. In cell-free preparations of Tetrahymena, doubly labelled [32P]phosphoenol-[3-14C] pyruvate gives rise to 2-aminoethylphosphonate and 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate, labelled with the two isotopes in the same ratio as the starting compound. The result is consistent with an intra-molecular rearrangement of phosphoenolpyruvate in the biosynthetic sequence of carbon-phosphorus bond formation. 2. 2. Incubation of [32P] phosphoenolpyruvate with the same preparation, followed by treatment with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, yielded labelled hydrazones. When these were subjected to hydrogenolysis, the radioactivity was recovered in 2-aminoethylphosphonate and 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate, suggesting that 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde and 3-phosphonopyruvic acid were probable precursors of the aminoalkylphosphonic acids. 3. 3. Radioactivity from 2-amino-3-phosphono-[3-14C] propionic acid was incorporated into 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid, but incorporation of the radioactivity into lipids was negligible.
Abstract We have identified and characterized a new member of the ATP-grasp enzyme family that catalyzes the ATP- and formate-dependent formylation of 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-d-ribofuranosyl 5′-monophosphate (AICAR) to 5-formaminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-d-ribofuranosyl 5′-monophosphate (FAICAR) in the absence of folates. The enzyme, which we designate as PurP, is the product of the Methanocaldococcus jannaschii purP gene (MJ0136), which is a signature gene for Archaea. As is characteristic of reactions catalyzed by this family of enzymes, the other products of the reaction, ADP and Pi, were produced stoichiometrically with the amount of ATP, formate, and AICAR used. Formyl phosphate was found to substitute for ATP and formate in the reaction, yet the methylene analog, phosphonoacetaldehyde, was not an inhibitor or substrate for the reaction. The enzyme, along with PurO, which catalyzes the cyclization of FAICAR to inosine 5′-monophosphate, catalyzes the same overall transformation in purine biosynthesis as is accomplished by PurH in bacteria and eukaryotes. No homology exists between PurH and either PurO or PurP. 1H NMR and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of an M. jannaschii cell extract showed the presence of free formate that can be used by the enzyme for purine biosynthesis. This formate arises by the reduction of CO2 with hydrogen; this was demonstrated by incorporating 13C into the formate when M. jannaschii cell extracts were incubated with and hydrogen gas. The presence of this signature gene in all of the Archaea indicates the presence of a purine biosynthetic pathway proceeding in the absence of folate coenzymes.
The biosynthetic step following the phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) phosphomutase reaction which forms a C-P bond of bialaphos was proven by the identification of phosphonopyruvate (PnPy) and phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA) as intermediates in the culture broth of Streptomyces hygroscopicus, a producing organism of bialaphos, and by detection of enzymatic decarboxylation of PnPy to PnAA. Purified PnPy decarboxylase turned out to require thiamine diphosphate and Mg2+ as cofactors. PnPy decarboxylase drives the unfavorable forward reaction to form PnPy catalyzed by PEP phosphomutase and is suggested to be essential to C-P compound biosynthesis.
The phnX gene encoding the phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) from the Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa A237 has been cloned and its sequence determined. The open reading frame consists of 825 nucleotides specifying a protein of 275 amino acid residues corresponding to a predicted molecular weight of 29929. The deduced amino acid sequence of PhnX did not share significant amino acid sequence similarity with any other polypeptide. Expression of the phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase coding sequence in Escherichia coli under control of the E. coli tac promoter resulted in the production of enzymatically active protein with an affinity constant similar to that of the phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase purified from P. aeruginosa A237. This is the first nucleic sequence report of the phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase, an enzyme involved in the carbon-phosphorus bond cleavage.
Diethyl phosphonoacetaldehyde diethyl acetal, crotonic acid, N-bromosuccinimide, EtSH, DCC, triethyl phosphite, sorbic acid, isovaleraldehyde, DBU, and DIBAL-H were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Azobis(isobutyronitrile) was purchased from Janssen Chimica. DMAP, (E)-2-heptenal, and hydrocinnamylaldehyde were purchased from ACROS. EDC-HCl salt was purchased from Fluka.
In many living organisms, ranging from microorganisms to mammalian tissues, 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (2-AEP; ciliatine) is the most common, naturally occurring, and ubiquitous phosphonate (Horiguchi and Kandatsu, 1959; Cembella an Antia, 1986; Blackburn, 1981) . Ciliatine is characterized by the presence of a stable carbon-phosphorus (C-P) bond, which makes it resistant to chemical hydrolysis and thermal decomposition (Kononowa and Nesmeyanowa, 2002) . In addition, this compound is a relevant precursor for the biosynthesis of phosphonoglycans, phosphonolipids, and phosphonoproteins (Baumann et al., 1992; Kariotoglou and Mastronicolis, 2001 ). Due to the occurrence of ciliatine in the natural environment, microorganisms have evolved a unique degradation pathway to convert 2-AEP into a source of nutrients for growth (Klimek-Ochab et al., 2007) . 2-AEP is rapidly degraded by most bacteria (Cook et al., 1978; Dumora et al., 1983; Ternan and Quinn, 1998; Kononova and Nesmeyanowa, 2002) . The transport of 2-AEP molecule into the bacterial cell is induced by its very presence and is specific for phosphonates. The C-P bond cleavage in a ciliatine molecule takes place in the absence of inorganic phosphate (Pi) in the environment. Biodegradation of the 2-AEP molecule is a two-step process. The first step consists of substrate transamination catalyzed by 2-AEP transaminase; as a result, phosphonoacetaldehyde and a corresponding amino acid are formed . 2-AEP transaminase [EC 2.6.1.37] was isolated from Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Dumora et al., 1983; Dumora et al., 1989) and Salmonella typhimurium ; however, it occurs in other microorganisms as well (e.g. Bacillus cereus (La Nauze and Rosenberg, 1968) or Pseudomonas putida NG2 (Ternan and Quinn, 1998) ). Substrate transamination occurs in the presence of pyridoxal phosphate that acts as a cofactor specific for pyruvate (the acceptor of amino group), whereas 2-AEP is an amino group 358 donor (Chen et al., 2002) . In the next step, phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) [EC 3.11.1.1] catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphonoacetaldehyde to form acetaldehyde and Pi (Allen and Dunaway-Mariano, 2004) . This enzyme was isolated and purified from bacterial strains: Bacillus cereus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter aerogenes (La Nauze et al., 1970; Lacoste, 1989, Lee et al., 1992) .
The degradation pathway of AEP in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which can utilize this aminophosphonate as a phosphorus, nitrogen or carbon source is well-known; a two-step pathway is involved. A specific 2-aminoethylphosphonate : pyruvate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1 .37) first catalyses the formation of alanine and phosphonoacetaldehyde (Dumora et al., 1983) ; the C-P bond of phosphonoacetaldehyde is then split into Pi and acetaldehyde by a phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (EC 3.1 1.1 . 1) (phosphonatase) (Dumora et al., 1989) .
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase, a C-P bond-cleaving enzyme which utilizes an unusual bicovalent catalytic strategy, has been crystallized by the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method using PEG 4000 as the precipitant. The crystals belong to the monoclinic system and belong to space group C2, with unit-cell parameters a = 210.5, b = 45.5, c = 64.7 A, beta = 105.0 degrees. The asymmetric unit contains a dimer related by a non-crystallographic dyad. In addition to a 2.7 A native data set, the following data sets have been collected: a 2.4 A data set from crystals complexed with the intermediate analog vinyl sulfonate, a 3.0 A three-wavelength MAD data set from crystals complexed with the product analog WO(4)(2-), as well as several heavy-atom data sets to 3.0 A or better, of which only three have proven useful for MIR calculations. Examination of the native Patterson map revealed NCS that made previously uninterpretable derivative data useful. Independent phase sets were first calculated and refined for the MAD and MIR experiments separately and were then combined. The combined phase set was further improved by solvent flattening, histogram matching and NCS averaging. Interpretation of the resulting electron-density map is currently under way.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphonoacetaldehyde to acetaldehyde and inorganic phosphate. In this study, the genes encoding phosphonatase in Bacillus cereus and in Salmonella typhimurium were cloned for high-level expression in Escherichia coli. The kinetic properties of the purified, recombinant phosphonatases were determined. The Schiff base mechanism known to operate in the B. cereus enzyme was verified for the S. typhimurium enzyme by phosphonoacetaldehyde−sodium borohydride-induced inactivation and by site-directed mutagenesis of the catalytic lysine 53. The protein sequence inferred from the B. cereus phosphonatase gene was determined, and this sequence was used along with that from the S. typhimurium phosphonatase gene sequence to search the primary sequence databases for possible structural homologues. We found that phosphonatase belongs to a novel family of hydrolases which appear to use a highly conserved active site aspartate residue in covalent ...
ABSTRACT: Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphonoacetaldehyde to acetaldehyde and inorganic phosphate. In this study, the genes encoding phosphonatase in Bacillus cereus and in Salmonella typhimurium were cloned for high-level expression in Escherichia coli. The kinetic properties of the purified, recombinant phosphonatases were determined. The Schiff base mechanism known to operate in the B. cereus enzyme was verified for the S. typhimurium enzyme by phosphonoacetaldehyde-sodium borohydride-induced inactivation and by site-directed mutagenesis of the catalytic lysine 53. The protein sequence inferred from the B. cereus phosphonatase gene was determined, and this sequence was used along with that from the S. typhimurium phosphonatase gene sequence to search the primary sequence databases for possible structural homologues. We found that phosphonatase belongs to a novel family of hydrolases which appear to use a highly conserved active site aspartate residue in covalent catalysis. On the basis of this finding and the known stereochemical course of phosphonatase-catalyzed hydrolysis at phosphorus (retention), we propose a mechanism which involves Schiff base formation with lysine 53 followed by phosphoryl transfer to aspartate (at position 11 in the S. typhimurium enzyme and position 12 in the B. cereus phosphonatase) and last hydrolysis at the imine C(1) and acyl phosphate phosphorus.
Organophosphonates are characterized by the presence of a stable, covalent carbon-to-phosphorus (COP) bond. In the majority of previous studies they have been utilized only under phosphate-limited conditions and only as sole sources of phosphorus for microbial growth (3, 4, 21, 22) . The COP bond may be cleaved by at least three distinct bacterial enzymes: the COP lyase enzyme complex(es) (17, 24, 25, 27, 28) , phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (5, 6, 9, 12), and phosphonoacetate hydrolase (14-16). The latter enzyme is unique in that its expression is independent of the phosphate status of the cell and is inducible solely by phosphonoacetate. It is likely that organophosphonate biodegradation in the environment is mediated largely by a COP lyase(s), with organisms capable of mineralizing organophosphonates as sources of carbon and energy being rare (2, 13).
A fosmid library from genomic DNA of Streptomyces viridochromogenes DSM 40736 was constructed and screened for the presence of genes known to be involved in the biosynthesis of phosphinothricin tripeptide (PTT). Eight positives were identified, one of which was able to confer PTT biosynthetic capability upon Streptomyces lividans after integration of the fosmid into the chromosome of this heterologous host. Sequence analysis of the 40,241-bp fosmid insert revealed 29 complete open reading frames (ORFs). Deletion analysis demonstrated that a minimum set of 24 ORFs were required for PTT production in the heterologous host. Sequence analysis revealed that most of these PTT genes have been previously identified in either S. viridochromogenes or S. hygroscopicus (or both), although only 11 out of 24 of these ORFs have experimentally defined functions. Three previously unknown genes within the cluster were identified and are likely to have roles in the stepwise production of phosphonoformate from phosphonoacetaldehyde. This is the first report detailing the entire PTT gene cluster from any producing streptomycete.
A fosmid library from genomic DNA of Streptomyces viridochromogenes DSM 40736 was constructed and screened for the presence of genes known to be involved in the biosynthesis of phosphinothricin tripeptide (PTT). Eight positives were identified, one of which was able to confer PTT biosynthetic capability upon Streptomyces lividans after integration of the fosmid into the chromosome of this heterologous host. Sequence analysis of the 40,241-bp fosmid insert revealed 29 complete open reading frames (ORFs). Deletion analysis demonstrated that a minimum set of 24 ORFs were required for PTT production in the heterologous host. Sequence analysis revealed that most of these PTT genes have been previously identified in either S. viridochromogenes or S. hygroscopicus (or both), although only 11 out of 24 of these ORFs have experimentally defined functions. Three previously unknown genes within the cluster were identified and are likely to have roles in the stepwise production of phosphonoformate from phosphonoacetaldehyde. This is the first report detailing the entire PTT gene cluster from any producing streptomycete.
Research interest in PTT biosynthesis stems from both its herbicidal activity and the incorporation of the unique phosphinic acid moiety. Previous studies in either S. hygroscopicus or S. viridochromogenes have shown that the biosynthesis of PTT involves more than 13 discrete enzymatically catalyzed reactions, (Fig. 1) linked to a chromosomal gene cluster about 35 kb in length (50). Many of these biosynthetic steps have been accounted for, including those involved with nonribosomal peptide synthesis (Fig. 1, step XIII) , the formation of both C-P bonds (steps I and XIV) and those with remarkable homology to portions of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (steps VIII-X). PTT biosynthesis has consequently become one of the only models for reduced-phosphorus antibiotic production. Important biosynthetic questions, however, remain regarding the nature of PTT biosynthesis despite the elucidation of most of the steps. For example, the genes and corresponding enzymes involved in the stepwise oxidation of phosphonoacetaldehyde, an early intermediate, to phosphonoformate (steps III and IV) are currently unaccounted for. Similarly, the mechanism of carboxyphosphonoenolpyruvate synthesis from phosphonoformate also remains largely uncharacterized (step V). Finally, the entire biosynthetic gene cluster has heretofore never been sequenced in its entirety from either producer.
Reduction of phosphonoacetaldehyde to 2-hydroxyethylphosphonate is a common step in the biosynthesis of phosphonate natural products. The facial selectivity of hydride transfer from NADPH to phosphonoacetaldehyde was determined in this study in an effort to interrogate the biosynthetic pathway towards fosfomycin.
The inhibition by phosphonates and phosphate analogues of the alkaline phosphatase activity of rat intestinal brush-border membrane vesicles was studied at pH 7.5 and 30 degrees C. Phenylene-1,3-diphosphonate, 2,6-dinitrophenylphosphonate and phosphonoacetaldehyde were found to be competitive inhibitors, with Ki values in the range 16-80 microM. Adenosine 5'-[beta-thio]diphosphate and adenosine 5'[gamma-thio]triphosphate are also very potent inhibitors, with Ki values of approx. 10 microM. The inhibition produced by these thiophosphates was mainly competitive but with a slight non-competitive element. Adenosine 5'-[beta gamma-imido]triphosphate is also a competitive inhibitor of the alkaline phosphatase, but oxidation of the ribose moiety of this compound with NaIO4 results in an active-site-directed irreversible inhibitor that could be of general use in studies of the mechanism of action of this enzyme.
Phosphoenolpyruvate phosphomutase (PEP mutase) from Tetrahymena pyriformis catalyzes the rearrangement of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to phosphonopyruvate (P-pyr). A spectrophotometric P-pyr assay consisting of the coupled actions of P-pyr decarboxylase, phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase, and alcohol dehydrogenase was devised to monitor mutase catalysis. The reaction constants determined for PEP mutase catalyzed conversion of PEP to P-pyr at pH 7.5 and 25 °C in the presence of Mg(II) are kcat = 5 s-1, Km = 0.77 ± 0.05 mM, and Keq = (2−9) × 10-4. In the PEP forming direction, kcat = 100 s-1 and Km = 3.5 ± 0.1 μM. Retention of stereochemistry at phosphorus and strong inhibition displayed by the pyruvyl enolate analog, oxalate, have been cited as two lines of evidence that PEP mutase catalysis proceeds via a phosphoenzyme−pyruvyl enolate intermediate [Seidel, H. M., & Knowles, J. R. (1994) Biochemistry 33, 5641−5646]. In this study, single turnover reactions of oxalyl phosphate with the PEP mutase were carried o...
ABSTRACT: Phosphoenolpyruvate phosphomutase (PEP mutase) from Tetrahymena pyriformis catalyzes the rearrangement of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to phosphonopyruvate (P-pyr). A spectrophotometric P-pyr assay consisting of the coupled actions of P-pyr decarboxylase, phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase, and alcohol dehydrogenase was devised to monitor mutase catalysis. The reaction constants determined for PEP mutase catalyzed conversion of PEP to P-pyr at pH 7.5 and 25°C in the presence of Mg(II) are k cat ) 5 s -1 , K m ) 0.77 ( 0.05 mM, and K eq ) (2-9) × 10 -4 . In the PEP forming direction, k cat ) 100 s -1 and K m ) 3.5 ( 0.1 µM. P]phosphoenzyme-oxalate complex. In contrast, the same reaction carried out with pyruvate phosphate dikinase (PPDK), an enzyme known to catalyze the phosphorylation of its active site histidine with PEP, occurred at a rate of 4 × 10 -4 s -1 (15% E-P formed) in the presence Mg(II) and at a rate of 3 × 10 -3 s -1 (60% E-P formed) in the presence of Mn(II). Both oxalyl phosphate (K i ) 180 ( 10 µM) and oxalate (K i ) 32 ( 10 µM) were competitive inhibitors of PEP mutase catalysis, but neither displayed slow, tight binding inhibition. These results do not support the intermediacy of a phosphoenzyme-pyruvyl enolate complex in PEP mutase catalysis.
A novel phosphonoacetaldehyde-oxidizing activity was detected in cell-extracts of the marine bacterium Roseovarius nubinhibens ISM grown on 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (2-AEP; ciliatine). Extracts also contained 2-AEP transaminase and phosphonoacetate hydrolase activities. These findings indicate the existence of a biological route from 2-AEP via phosphonoacetaldehyde for the production of phosphonoacetate, which has not previously been shown to be a natural product. The three enzymes appear to constitute a previously-unreported pathway for the mineralization of 2-AEP which is a potentially important source of phosphorus in the nutrient-stressed marine environment.
Abstract 1. 1. Bacillus cereus degrades 2-aminoethylphosphonate by the following pathway: 2. 2. Reaction II above involves the enzymic cleavage of the carbon-phosphorus bond and has not been described previously. The enzyme responsible for this reaction has now been purified and studied; we have suggested that it be named “2-phosphonoacetaldehyde phosphonohydrolase”, and that the trivial name be “phosphonatase”. 3. 3. Phosphonatase shows optimal activity between pH 8 and 9, and has a K m for 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde of 40 μM. Apartfrom 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde, phosphonate shows virtually no activity with any of a number of phosphonates and phosphate esters tested. 4. 4. The active enzyme is composed of two similar subunits, each of an approximate molecular weight of 33 000–37 000. Mg2+ is required for activity, but this probably helps to maintain the enzyme in its aggregated state rather than play a catalytic role at the active site; no other metals have been shown to be necessary for activity. 5. 5. Phosphonatase is inhibited by CN−, S2− and SO32−, which suggests that disulphide bridges may be necessary in maintaining the tertiary structure of the activeform of the enzyme. 6. 6. Orthophosphite, which has been shown previously to abolish the growth of B. cereus on 2-aminoethylphosphonate, inhibits the activity of phosphonatase, but only in the presence of 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde or acetaldehyde. Experiments with [32P]orthophosphite showed that, although the inhibitor was bound tightly to phosphonatase, it did not form a covalent bond with the enzyme.
(R)- and (S)-2-amino[2-D1]ethylphosphonic acids ([2-D1]AEP) were synthesised to investigate the stereochemistry of the reaction catalysed by 2-aminoethlphosphonate aminotransferase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This enzyme catalyses the transfer of the amino group of AEP to pyruvate to produce 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde and alanine. The enzymic reaction proceeding through the abstraction of a proton from the Schiff-base complex formed between the enzyme-bound pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, and the substrate, was carried out in an aqueous buffer at pH 8.5; it was followed by high-field 1H-NMR measurements (500 MHz, H2O) on an AMX 500 Bruker spectrometer. The spectra, recorded with chiral (R)- or (S)-[2-D1]AEP, both showed the methylenic signal (3.0 ppm), whereas (S)-[2-D1]AEP gave the additional aldehydic signal (CHO, 9.6 ppm). These data clearly show that AEP-aminotransferase catalyses the abstraction of the pro-S hydrogen atom at the prochiral C2 carbon of AEP. Furthermore, careful timing of NMR measurements over a 2-hour period allows us to show the occurrence of an isotopic effect.
Antibiotics containing P-C bonds (phosphonates and phosphinates) as a class are virtually uncharacterized on the genetic and biochemical level. Although the biosynthetic pathway for fosfomycin production in S. wedmorensis has been proposed, heterologous production of fosfomycin has never been achieved, suggesting the possibility that additional required genes remain to be identified [19] . The enzymes encoded by fom1-4 are generally thought to catalyze consecutive steps as displayed in Figure 1 , where PEP is converted to phosphonopyruvate (PnPy) by PEP mutase [20] , followed by a decarboxylation to form phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA). These first two steps are a common theme in the biosynthesis of most phosphonates [21, 22] , where the decarboxylation reaction drives the unfavorable PEP mutase reaction forward [23] [24] [25] [26] . PnAA is known to be a biosynthetic intermediate for several phosphonates such as bialaphos [23] , fosfomycin [20] , 2-aminoethylphosphonate (AEP) [27] , and 2-hydroxyethylphosphonate (HEP) [28] . Both PEP mutase (Fom1) and PnPy decarboxylase (Fom2) activities have been mapped to the corresponding genes in the fosfomycin biosynthetic pathway of S. wedmorensis [20] . In the subsequent step of the pathway, PnAA is proposed to be attacked by a methyl anion derived from methylcobalamin (MeCbl) to form 2-hydroxypropylphosphonate (HPP) [19, 29] . This step is unusual, as it would involve an unprecedented use of methylcobalamin. Since the methyltransferase encoded by fom3 has not been characterized in vitro due to difficulties with functional expression and purification, this proposed conversion is still purely speculative. In the final step, HPP is oxidized to form the epoxide [30, 31] , completing the biosynthesis of fosfomycin. This unusual epoxidation step catalyzed by Fom4 has been characterized in detail [30, [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] [38] with several different crystal structures reported for the enzyme [37, 38] . While the mechanistic details are still under debate, there is a consensus that this enzyme catalyzes the conversion of HPP to fosfomycin in a stereospecific manner using a mononuclear metal. Thus, several important features of fosfomycin biosynthesis have been discerned on the biochemical level.
Phosphonatase catalyses P–C bond cleavage in phosphonoacetaldehyde molecules. According to the experimental results this reaction is initiated by Schiff base formation, which facilitates nucleophilic attack on phosphorus. In this paper a preliminary theoretical description of Schiff base formation, P–C bond cleavage and phosphate release is presented, based on quantum chemical calculations at the DFT level of theory, which is probably the first theoretical study of a reaction catalyzed by phosphonatase. Findings from these calculations support the mechanism of imine formation reported in the literature and show that different pathways of phosphonyl transfer can be applied in the active site of phosphonatase. §This contribution is dedicated to Professor Andrzej J. Sadlej on the occasion of his 65th birthday.
Cold-adapted strain of Geomyces pannorum P11 was found to mineralize of phosphorus–carbon bond-containing compound—2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (2-AEP, ciliatine). The biodegradation process proceeded in the phosphate-independent manner. Ciliatine-metabolizing enzymes' activity was detectable in cell-free extracts prepared from psychrophilic G. pannorum pregrown on 4 mM 2-AEP. Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) activity in a partially purified extract was demonstrated at 10 °C.
Recently, we found a C-P bond cleavage enzyme in cell extracts of Enterobacter aerogenes IFO 12010 (15). The enzyme in the bacterium could cleave the C-P bond in various alkyl-and phenylphosphonic acids (such as methylphosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and phenylphosphonic acid) and was shown to be distinct from the enzyme phosphonatase, which hydrolyzes the C-P bond in phosphonoacetaldehyde (9-11).
Abstract Cold-adapted strain of Geomyces pannorum P11 was found to mineralize of phosphorus-carbon bond-containing compound-2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (2-AEP, ciliatine). The biodegradation process proceeded in the phosphate-independent manner. Ciliatine-metabolizing enzymes' activity was detectable in cell-free extracts prepared from psychrophilic G. pannorum pregrown on 4 mM 2-AEP. Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) activity in a partially purified extract was demonstrated at 10°C.
The biodegradation pathway of ciliatine molecule is described as a two-step process. The first reaction reported as transamination is carried out by 2-AEP transaminase and leads to the formation of phosphonoacetaldehyde and corresponding amino acid. This enzyme [EC 2.6.1.37] has been isolated from Pseudomonas aeruginosa [9] and Salmonella typhimurium [6, 16] . Transaminase requires pyridoxalphosphate as cofactor and is specific for pyruvate as the amino group acceptor, while 2-AEP acts as amino group donor. The next step includes hydrolytic cleavage of the C-P bond within the phosphonoacetaldehyde molecule and results in formation of inorganic phosphate and acetate. This reaction is carried out by an enzyme phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) [EC 3.11.1.1] that has been purified from Bacillus cereus [24, 30] . Both enzymes involved in ciliatine degradation are synthesized in microbial cells and are inhibited by the presence of inorganic phosphate. The literature data concerning the phosphate starvation-independent ciliatine biodegradation are scarce [18, 28] .
Summary ::: ::: ::: The phnA gene that encodes the carbon-phosphorus bond cleavage enzyme phosphonoacetate hydrolase is widely distributed in the environment, suggesting that its phosphonate substrate may play a significant role in biogeochemical phosphorus cycling. Surprisingly, however, no biogenic origin for phosphonoacetate has yet been established. To facilitate the search for its natural source we have constructed a whole-cell phosphonoacetate biosensor. The gene encoding the LysR-type transcriptional activator PhnR, which controls expression of the phosphonoacetate degradative operon in Pseudomonas fluorescens 23F, was inserted in the broad-host-range promoter probe vector pPROBE-NT, together with the promoter region of the structural genes. Cells of Escherichia coli DH5α that contained the resultant construct, pPANT3, exhibited phosphonoacetate-dependent green fluorescent protein fluorescence in response to threshold concentrations of as little as 0.5 µM phosphonoacetate, some 100 times lower than the detection limit of currently available non-biological analytical methods; the pPANT3 biosensor construct in Pseudomonas putida KT2440 was less sensitive, although with shorter response times. From a range of other phosphonates and phosphonoacetate analogues tested, only phosphonoacetaldehyde and arsonoacetate induced green fluorescent protein fluorescence in the E. coli DH5α (pPANT3) biosensor, although at much-reduced sensitivities (50 µM phosphonoacetaldehyde and 500 µM arsonoacetate).
The phnA gene that encodes the carbon-phosphorus bond cleavage enzyme phosphonoacetate hydrolase is widely distributed in the environment, suggesting that its phosphonate substrate may play a significant role in biogeochemical phosphorus cycling. Surprisingly, however, no biogenic origin for phosphonoacetate has yet been established. To facilitate the search for its natural source we have constructed a whole-cell phosphonoacetate biosensor. The gene encoding the LysR-type transcriptional activator PhnR, which controls expression of the phosphonoacetate degradative operon in Pseudomonas fluorescens 23F, was inserted in the broad-host-range promoter probe vector pPROBE-NT, together with the promoter region of the structural genes. Cells of Escherichia coli DH5a that contained the resultant construct, pPANT3, exhibited phosphonoacetate-dependent green fluorescent protein fluorescence in response to threshold concentrations of as little as 0.5 mM phosphonoacetate, some 100 times lower than the detection limit of currently available non-biological analytical methods; the pPANT3 biosensor construct in Pseudomonas putida KT2440 was less sensitive, although with shorter response times. From a range of other phosphonates and phosphonoacetate analogues tested, only phosphonoacetaldehyde and arsonoacetate induced green fluorescent protein fluorescence in the E. coli DH5a (pPANT3) biosensor, although at much-reduced sensitivities (50 mM phosphonoacetaldehyde and 500 mM arsonoacetate).
Phosphonates are compounds that contain a direct, highly stable, carbon-phosphorus bond; they are frequently of biogenic origin and are ubiquitous in the environment . The significance of phosphonates in global biogeochemical phosphorus cycling is increasingly recognized (Gilbert et al., 2009) , especially in marine environments in which P is often the limiting nutrient (Dyhrman et al., 2006 ), yet our understanding of the routes by which they are mineralized is far from complete. Four mechanisms for the microbial cleavage of the C-P bond are known to date: a broadspecificity multi-enzyme system, C-P lyase and three C-P hydrolases that are specific, respectively, to phosphonoacetaldehyde, phosphonopyruvate and phosphonoacetate. Homologues of the genes that encode all four of these activities have been identified in the sequenced genomes of a wide diversity of prokaryotes, and in a range of environmental metagenomic libraries (Quinn et al., 2007) .
Incubation of 2-amino-3-phosphono[3-14C]propionic acid with cell-free preparations of rat liver yielded labelled 3-phosphonopyruvic acid, 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde, 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and acetaldehyde. No radioactivity was found in phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvic acid, alanine, and phosphonoacetic acid. When added to the cell-free preparations, 3-phosphonopyruvic acid trapped the radioactivity, resulting in decrease of incorporation of the radioactivity into 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde, 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and acetaldehyde. Incorporation of the radioactivity into 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and acetaldehyde was also decreased by 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde. Thus it appears that the main metabolic pathway of 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid is deamination to produce 3-phosphonopyruvic acid which is, in turn, converted to 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde by decarboxylation, followed by both dephosphonylation and amination of the aldehyde to give acetaldehyde and 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid, respectively.
The nucleotide sequence of the Streptomyces hygroscopicus gene encoding P-methyltransferase, catalyzing the formation of a carbon-phosphorus bond, involved in bialaphos biosynthesis, has been determined. The amino-acid sequence deduced from the nt sequence, shows homology with those of magnesium-protoporphyrin IX monomethyl ester oxidative cyclase (Mg-ProtoMe cyclase) of Rhodobacter capsulatus and the enzyme catalyzing the methylation of the aldehyde carbon of phosphonoacetaldehyde in fosfomycin biosynthesis.
Abstract Phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase (PPDC) catalyzes the thiamine diphosphate-dependent non-oxidative decarboxylation of phosphonopyruvate to phosphonoacetaldehyde and carbon dioxide. The enzyme of S. viridochromogenes Tu494 was expressed as a recombinant fusion protein with an N-terminal 10× histidine-tag in Escherichia coli cells, and was purified to homogeneity by nickel affinity chromatography. The biochemical properties of the recombinant enzyme were characterized, measuring phosphonoacetaldehyde formation by two newly developed coupled enzyme assays. PPDC has a high affinity to its cofactors ThDP, and Mg2+ (both Km ∼ 40 μM). The metal ions Ca2+ and Mn2+ (Km ∼ 3 μM) could substitute for Mg2+. In coupled enzyme assays at pH 8.0 (HEPES buffer) and at 30 °C, PPDC followed Michaelis–Menten kinetics with phosphonopyruvate, with a Km value of 3.2 ± 0.35 μM and a v max value of 0.81 ± 0.01 U/mg. Neither pyruvate, β-hydroxypyruvate, nor fluoropyruvate served as alternative substrates. Gel filtration chromatography indicated a molecular mass of 72,100 ± 220 Da. Taking into account a subunit size of about 43,600 Da, the quaternary structure of the Ppd appears to be homodimeric. A comparison with the pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC) from Zymomonas mobilis allowed the identification of several amino acid residues, whose potential functions were examined by site-directed mutagenesis. Based on kinetic data of various site-directed PPDC variants and by comparison to 3D structures of PDC and benzoylformate decarboxylase, a model of the active site was generated. As in most other ThDP-dependent enzymes a glutamate residue (Glu-48 of PPDC) appears to be responsible for ThDP activation. Residues Ser-25, His-110, and Asp-297 affect the catalytic activity and are probably located in the direct vicinity of the substrate binding site. Residues Asp-265, Asn-293, and Gly-294 were found within the conserved ThDP-binding motif and mark the binding site of the Me2+ ion that is responsible for ThDP anchoring. Asp-263 is conserved in PPDC sequences and in sulfopyruvate decarboxylase, and appears to contribute to the metal ion binding site, too. Glu-224, another conserved residue is essential for catalytic activity. The results for Glu-224 and Asp-263 are contrary to the description of the corresponding residues in the PPDC of the gram-negative bacterium Bacteroides fragilis [G. Zhang, J. Dai, Z. Lu, D. Dunaway-Mariano, J. Biol. Chem. 278 (2003) 41302–41308].
Abstract The aminolysis of formyl phosphate by both linear and macrocyclic polyamines at pH 7 and 5°C was examined and found to proceed primarily by C-O cleavege to give the N -formylated amines. In the presence of excess bromide ion (ionic strength 0.3) the reaction was second-order with rate constants ranging from 7.1 to 12 liter m −1 min −1 for the macrocyclic amines 1,4,7,13,16,19-hexaaza-10,22-dioxacyclotetraeicosane ([24]N 6 O 2 , 1 ) and 1,4,7,10,13,16-hexaazacyclooctadecane ([18]N 6 , 4 ) and the linear amines 1,4,7,10,13-pentaazatridecane ([L]N 5 , 5 ) and 1,4,7,10-tetraazadecane ([L]N 4 , 6 ). In the absence of excess bromide ion the reaction was first-order with a rate constant of 0.30 min −1 for 1 and ranged from 0.26 to 0.54 min −1 for the other amines. The addition of a stable substrate analog (phosphonoacetaldehyde) to the reaction significantly decreased the rate of aminolysis. The reaction is proposed to proceed through a supramolecular complex of polyprotonated polyamine and formyl phosphate with a dissociation constant less than 1 × 10 −3 m . A similar complex has been proposed for the reaction of acetyl phosphate and 1 which gives P-O, not C-O, cleavage. The rate as a function of pH for the aminolysis of formyl phosphate by 1 is reasonably constant in the mid-pH region and the rate decreases at the extremes of pH 4 and 9. The results of this study more fully characterize the activation of formate in neutral aqueous media by adenosine 5′-triphosphate in the presence of 1 , a model for the reaction catalyzed by the enzyme N 10 -formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase for which formyl phosphate is a proposed intermediate.
Summary The biosynthetic reaction pathway leading to the natural product, 2-aminoethylphosphonate in Tetrahymena pyriformis has been elucidated. Incubation of [ 32 P]PEP and [ 14 C]PEP with T. pyriformis cellular homogenate fortified with Mg 2+ and alanine/pyridoxal phosphate, yielded 2-aminoethylphosphonate as the minor reaction product (2–5% yield) and phosphoglycerate and pyruvate plus orthophosphate as the major products. Inclusion of thiamine pyrophosphate in the reaction mixture increased the yield of 2-aminoethylphosphonate by a factor of 10. Incubation of phosphonoacetaldehyde or phosphonopyruvate in the cellular homogenate also provided 2-aminoethylphosphonate. The cellular homogenate catalyzed the transformation of phosphonoacetaldehyde to 2-aminoethylphosphonate in an ca . 80% yield. However, the maximum yield of 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid obtained by use of phosphonopyruvate was only 15%. The major reaction pathways induced by treatment of phosphonopyruvate with the cellular extract involved its competitive conversion to PEP and pyruvate plus orthophosphate.
3-Phosphonoalanine has been made by the Strecker synthesis from phosphonoacetaldehyde, which is easily prepared from vinyl acetate. It gives phosphonopyruvate by transamination when treated with glyoxylate. Phosphonolactate, an analogue of phosphoglycerate, is prepared by reducing phosphonopyruvate. Diazotization of phosphonoalanine was investigated as a route for making phosphonolactate: addition of NaNO2 to the isoelectric form of phosphonoalanine gave much scission of the C-P bond with release of phosphate; addition of HBr prevented this release and gave largely the bromo acid. The supplement reports the synthesis of arsonolactate, a similar analogue, by treating chlorolactate with alkaline arsenite.
A novel phosphonoacetaldehyde-oxidizing activity was detected in cell-extracts of the marine bacterium Roseovarius nubinhibens ISM grown on 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (2-AEP; ciliatine). Extracts also contained 2-AEP transaminase and phosphonoacetate hydrolase activities. These findings indicate the existence of a biological route from 2-AEP via phosphonoacetaldehyde for the production of phosphonoacetate, which has not previously been shown to be a natural product. The three enzymes appear to constitute a previously-unreported pathway for the mineralization of 2-AEP which is a potentially important source of phosphorus in the nutrient-stressed marine environment.
The theoretical QM/MM study of the reaction catalysed by phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase indicates a possible alternative mechanism of the P-C bond cleavage: as opposed to the mechanism proposed earlier and that involved formation of a covalently bound intermediate (Schiff-base), in the new mechanism, the bond breaking process is facilitated by proton transfer from catalytic lysine residue to the substrate.
Genetic capabilities to degrade Pn are present in gramnegative and some gram-positive bacteria. Four classes of enzymes involved in Pn metabolism have been characterized: phosphonoacetate hydrolase, which cleaves specifically phosphonoacetate (17); phosphonopyruvate hydrolase (27); phosphonatase, which cleaves phosphonoacetaldehyde, the transamination product of 2-aminoethyl phosphonic acid (14); and C-P lyase, which is the most widespread enzymatic pathway for Pn degradation, cleaving the C-P bond of a broad spectrum of Pn (32). In Escherichia coli, all the functions for phosphonate transport and degradation are encoded by an operon (composed of 14 genes and named phnCDEFGHIJKLMNOP) whose expression is induced by phosphate starvation as part of the Pho regulon (34). In this bacterium, C-P lyase is a multienzyme complex encoded by seven genes, phnGHI JKLM, and enzymatic activity has been detected only in whole permeabilized cells; it has never been detected in cell extracts (18, 32) .
Phosphonoacetaldehyde (Pald) is formed in a variety of biosynthetic pathways leading to natural phosphonates and is an intermediate in the degradation pathway of the natural product 2-aminoethylphosphonate. To facilitate the investigation of the enzymes catalyzing these pathways, a method for the synthesis of radiolabeled Pald was developed. The enzyme pyruvate phosphate dikinase was used to prepare phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) from pyruvate, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and orthophosphate. Then PEP was converted to phosphonopyruvate (Ppyr) with PEP mutase and then to Pald with Ppyr decarboxylase. By using [b- 32 P]ATP or [2- 14 C]pyruvate as precursor, [ 32 P]Pald or [1- 14 C]Pald was obtained, respectively. The utilization of the synthetic, radiolabeled Pald as a probe of enzyme mechanism was demonstrated with the enzyme phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (trivial name phosphonatase). The single turnover time course for the formation and consumption of radiolabeled covalent enzyme species evidenced a kinetically competent covalent intermediate. 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde (PAL), a phosphonic acid analogue of glycolaldehyde phosphate, reacts in the presence of formaldehyde under mildly basic conditions to produce several new products. The reaction proceeds in two stages: a fast aldol condensation of formaldehyde with PAL, and a slower reaction to produce products containing two phosphonic acid groups. We report on the derivatization, isolation by means of HPLC and characterization of these compounds. One of the products is of potential interest as a building block for a prebiotic informational polymer.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde (Pald) is formed in a variety of biosynthetic pathways leading to natural phosphonates and is an intermediate in the degradation pathway of the natural product 2-aminoethylphosphonate. To facilitate the investigation of the enzymes catalyzing these pathways, a method for the synthesis of radiolabeled Pald was developed. The enzyme pyruvate phosphate dikinase was used to prepare phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) from pyruvate, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and orthophosphate. Then PEP was converted to phosphonopyruvate (Ppyr) with PEP mutase and then to Pald with Ppyr decarboxylase. By using 
Phosphonates, i.e., compounds having a C-P bond, are found in archaea, bacteria and eukaryotes and it has been suggested that they are important intermediates in the global phosphorus cycle. 1, 2 The relative stability of the C-P bond makes phosphonolipids and phosphonoglycans less susceptible to enzymatic hydrolysis than phosphates, thereby providing a selective advantage in phosphate-limited environments. 2 As phosphonates are structurally similar to phosphate esters and carboxylates, that same stability can also contribute to biological activity, with antibacterial, antiviral, antiparasitic and herbicidal activity all having been attributed to phosphonates. 1, 3 As shown in Scheme 1, there are two enzymes that are common to the biosynthesis of virtually all biogenic phosphonates. 4, 5 The first, PEP mutase, catalyzes the conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP, 1) to phosphonopyruvate (PnP, 2). This reaction is thermodynamically unfavorable 6 so a second enzyme, phosphonopyruvate decarboxylase (PnPDC), is used to introduce an irreversible step. 7 Phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA, 3), the 4 product of the decarboxylation reaction, is subsequently converted to a variety of phosphonic acid natural products.
The 2-haloalkanoic acid dehalogenase (HAD) family, which contains both carbon and phosphoryl transferases, is one of the largest known enzyme superfamilies. HAD members conserve an R,‚-core domain that frames the four-loop active-site platform. Each loop contributes one or more catalytic groups, which function in mediating the core chemistry (i.e., group transfer). In this paper, we provide evidence that the number of carboxylate residues on loop 4 and their positions (stations) on the loop are determinants, and therefore reliable sequence markers, for metal ion activation among HAD family members. Using this predictor, we conclude that the vast majority of the HAD members utilize a metal cofactor. Analysis of the minimum requirements for metal cofactor binding was carried out using Mg- (II)-activated Bacillus cereus phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) as an experimental model for metal-activated HAD members. Mg(II) binding occurs via ligation to the loop 1 Asp12 carboxylate and Thr14 backbone carbonyl and to the loop 4 Asp186 carboxylate. The loop 4 Asp190 forms a hydrogen bond to the Mg(II) water ligand. X-ray structure determination of the D12A mutant in the presence of the substrate phosphonoacetaldehyde showed that replacement of the loop 1 Asp, common to all HAD family members, with Ala shifts the position of Mg(II), thereby allowing innersphere coordination to Asp190 and causing a shift in the position of the substrate. Kinetic analysis of the loop 4 mutants showed that Asp186 is essential to cofactor binding while Asp190 simply enhances it. Within the phosphonatase subfamily, Asp186 is stringently conserved, while either position 185 or position 190 is used to position the second loop 4 Asp residue. Retention of a high level of catalytic activity in the G185D/D190G phosphonatase mutant demonstrated the plasticity of the metal binding loop, reflected in the variety of combinations in positioning of two or three Asp residues along the seven-residue motif of the 2700 potential HAD sequences that were examined.
ABSTRACT: The 2-haloalkanoic acid dehalogenase (HAD) family, which contains both carbon and phosphoryl transferases, is one of the largest known enzyme superfamilies. HAD members conserve an R, -core domain that frames the four-loop active-site platform. Each loop contributes one or more catalytic groups, which function in mediating the core chemistry (i.e., group transfer). In this paper, we provide evidence that the number of carboxylate residues on loop 4 and their positions (stations) on the loop are determinants, and therefore reliable sequence markers, for metal ion activation among HAD family members. Using this predictor, we conclude that the vast majority of the HAD members utilize a metal cofactor. Analysis of the minimum requirements for metal cofactor binding was carried out using Mg-(II)-activated Bacillus cereus phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) as an experimental model for metal-activated HAD members. Mg(II) binding occurs via ligation to the loop 1 Asp12 carboxylate and Thr14 backbone carbonyl and to the loop 4 Asp186 carboxylate. The loop 4 Asp190 forms a hydrogen bond to the Mg(II) water ligand. X-ray structure determination of the D12A mutant in the presence of the substrate phosphonoacetaldehyde showed that replacement of the loop 1 Asp, common to all HAD family members, with Ala shifts the position of Mg(II), thereby allowing innersphere coordination to Asp190 and causing a shift in the position of the substrate. Kinetic analysis of the loop 4 mutants showed that Asp186 is essential to cofactor binding while Asp190 simply enhances it. Within the phosphonatase subfamily, Asp186 is stringently conserved, while either position 185 or position 190 is used to position the second loop 4 Asp residue. Retention of a high level of catalytic activity in the G185D/D190G phosphonatase mutant demonstrated the plasticity of the metal binding loop, reflected in the variety of combinations in positioning of two or three Asp residues along the seven-residue motif of the 2700 potential HAD sequences that were examined.
In this paper, we examine metal ion activation of phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase 1 )-catalyzed hydrolysis of phosphonoacetaldehyde (Pald) to orthophosphate and acetaldehyde (Figure 1 ). Phosphonatase is a member of the 2-haloalkanoate dehalogenase (HAD) enzyme superfamily (1, 2). This is an exceptionally large family of enzymes (∼2700 members), which includes carbon (2-haloalkonoate dehalogenases) and phosphorus hydrolases (ATPases, phosphate monoesterases, and hexose phosphate mutases) (3). The members of this family catalyze nucleophilic substitution reactions at phosphorus or carbon centers, using a conserved Asp carboxylate in covalent catalysis. Like phosphonatase (4), most, but not all, members of the superfamily possess a cap domain, the fold and function of which are variable. The
Phosphonic acids encompass a common yet chemically diverse class of natural products that often possess potent biological activities. Here we report that, despite the significant structural differences among many of these compounds, their biosynthetic routes contain an unexpected common intermediate, 2-hydroxyethyl-phosphonate, which is synthesized from phosphonoacetaldehyde by a distinct family of metal-dependent alcohol dehydrogenases (ADHs). Although the sequence identity of the ADH family members is relatively low (34-37%), in vitro biochemical characterization of the homologs involved in biosynthesis of the antibiotics fosfomycin, phosphinothricin tripeptide, and dehydrophos (formerly A53868) unequivocally confirms their enzymatic activities. These unique ADHs have exquisite substrate specificity, unusual metal requirements, and an unprecedented monomeric quaternary structure. Further, sequence analysis shows that these ADHs form a monophyletic group along with additional family members encoded by putative phosphonate biosynthetic gene clusters. Thus, the reduction of phosphonoacetaldehyde to hydroxyethyl-phosphonate may represent a common step in the biosynthesis of many phosphonate natural products, a finding that lends insight into the evolution of phosphonate biosynthetic pathways and the chemical structures of new C-P containing secondary metabolites.
Abstract Cell-free extracts of Pseudomonas fluorescens strain 23F catalyzed the hydrolysis of phosphonoacetate to acetate and inorganic phosphate; the products were detected in almost equimolar quantities. The stable in vitro activity responsible was distinct from phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase and appears to represent a novel mode of carbon-phosphorus bond cleavage.
Fosfazinomycin A is a phosphonate natural product in which the C-terminal carboxylate of a Val-Arg dipeptide is connected to methyl 2-hydroxy-2-phosphono-acetate (Me-HPnA) via a unique hydrazide linkage. We report here that Me-HPnA is generated from phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA) in three biosynthetic steps through the combined action of an O-methyltransferase (FzmB) and an α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) dependent non-heme iron dioxygenase (FzmG). Unexpectedly, the latter enzyme is involved in two different steps, oxidation of the PnAA to phosphonoacetic acid as well as hydroxylation of methyl 2-phosphonoacetate. The N-methyltransferase (FzmH) was able to methylate Arg-NHNH2 (3) to give Arg-NHNHMe (4), constituting the second segment of the fosfazinomycin molecule. Methylation of other putative intermediates such as desmethyl fosfazinomycin B was not observed. Collectively, our current data support a convergent biosynthetic pathway to fosfazinomycin.
A Gram-negative halophile isolated from soil beneath a road gritting salt pile grew optimally at 10% (w/v) NaCl and was shown most likely to be Chromohalobacter marismortui or Pseudomonas beijerinckii on the basis of 16S rRNA analysis. The strain utilised phosphonoacetate, 2-aminoethyl-, 3-aminopropyl-, 4-aminobutyl-, methyl- and ethyl-phosphonates as phosphorus sources for growth. Differences were observed in the growth rate on different phosphonates and the range of phosphonates utilised at elevated NaCl concentrations, possibly as a result of differentially-induced transport mechanisms. An assay of cell-free extracts of 2-aminoethylphosphonate (2AEP) grown cells showed no detectable 2AEP:pyruvate aminotransferase or phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase activity.
Fosfazinomycin A is a phosphonate natural product in which the C-terminal carboxylate of a Val-Arg dipeptide is connected to methyl 2-hydroxy-2-phosphono-acetate (Me-HPnA) via a unique hydrazide linkage. We report here that Me-HPnA is generated from phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA) in three biosynthetic steps through the combined action of an O-methyltransferase (FzmB) and an a-ketoglutarate (a-KG) dependent non-heme iron dioxygenase (FzmG). Unexpectedly, the latter enzyme is involved in two different steps, oxidation of the PnAA to phosphonoacetic acid as well as hydroxylation of methyl 2-phosphonoacetate. The N-methyltransferase (FzmH) was able to methylate Arg-NHNH 2 (3) to give Arg-NHNHMe (4), constituting the second segment of the fosfazinomycin molecule. Methylation of other putative intermediates such as desmethyl fosfazinomycin B was not observed. Collectively, our current data support a convergent biosynthetic pathway to fosfazinomycin.
A Gram-negative halophile isolated from soil beneath a road gritting salt pile grew optimally at 10% (w/v) NaCl and was shown most likely to be Chromohalobacter marismortui or Pseudomonas beijerinckii on the basis of 16S rRNA analysis. The strain utilised phosphonoacetate, 2-aminoethyl-, 3-aminopropyl-, 4-aminobutyl-, methyl-and ethyl-phosphonates as phosphorus sources for growth. Differences were observed in the growth rate on different phosphonates and the range of phosphonates utilised at elevated NaCl concentrations, possibly as a result of differentially-induced transport mechanisms. An assay of cell-free extracts of 2-aminoethylphosphonate (2AEP) grown cells showed no detectable 2AEP:pyruvate aminotransferase or phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase activity. ß
The authors are presently studying enzymes which catalyze the formation and cleavage of carbon phosphorous bonds. In 1970 LaNauze et. al. reported the isolation of one enzyme of interest - phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase from a mutant of Bacillus cereus. This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphonoaldehyde to acetaldehyde and inorganic phosphate. They have isolated phosphonatase from wild type B. cereus (grown on 2-aminoethylphosphonate as the P/sub i/ source) and have used /sup 1/H-NMR and /sup 31/P-NMR techniques to determine the products of the enzyme reaction as phosphate and acetaldehyde. The mechanism of the enzyme could involve the formation of a Schiff base between phosphonoacetaldehyde and lysine or it might only require Mg/sup + +/, an essential cofactor for activity. To distinguish between these possibilities they have begun to look at the Schiff base formation in more detail. NaBH/sub 4/ was found to inactivate the enzyme in the presence of substrate but not in its absence. This is consistent with results obtained for the enzyme isolated from the mutant bacteria. In addition treatment of the wild type enzyme with tritiated NaBH/sub 4/ resulted in significant incorporation of radiolabel into the protein as compared to the control. These results tentatively suggest that hydrolysismore » proceeds via a covalent imine intermediate.« less
All cellular organisms depend extensively upon the biochemical reactions related to organo-phosphoesters and phosphoanhydrides. Hence, it is not surprising that an enormous diversity of phosphohydrolases have evolved on multiple occasions to catalyze the dephosphorylation of various compounds. 1, 2 The majority of cellular phosphohydrolases belong to a relatively small set of evolutionarily distinct superfamilies, which are almost entirely dedicated to the catalysis of such reactions. These large superfamilies include the P-loop NTPases, which is the largest monophyletic assemblage of nucleotide triphosphatases encoded by cellular genomes, 3 the RNase H fold of ATPases, including actin, Hsp70 and their relatives, 4,5 the DHH, 6 HD, 7 PHP, 8 HAD, 9,10 calcineurin-like, 11 synaptojaninlike, 12 and the Receiver domain (CheY) superfamilies. 13, 14 They span the entire range of structural basic classes with α-helical forms, such as the HD superfamily, 15 the beta-barrels such as the CYTH superfamily of phosphohydrolases, 16 three-layered α/β sandwiches, such as P-loop NTPases, 3 HAD 17 and DHH, 18, 19 α/β barrels such as the PHP phosphoesterases, 20 and four-layered α/β-sandwiches such as the calcineurin-like 21 and synaptojanin-like phosphoesterases. 22 The HAD superfamily, named after the archetypal enzyme haloacid dehalogenase, 9 includes enzymes catalyzing carbon or phosphoryl group transfer reactions on a diverse range of substrates, using an active site aspartate in nucleophilic catalysis ( Figure  1(a) ). The majority of the enzymes in this superfamily are involved in phosphoryl transfer, i.e. phosphate monoester hydrolases (phosphatases) or phosphoanhydride hydrolase P-type ATPases. These include variations such as a phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) and phosphotransferases, such as β-phosphoglucomutase and α-mannophosphomutase. Each of the phosphotransferase enzymes requires a Mg 2+ cofactor for catalysis 9, 10 (Figure 1(b) ). The carbon group transfer reaction (Figure 1(a) ) catalyzed by haloalkanoic acid dehalogenase (HAD) 23 is unique in that it does not utilize a metal ion cofactor, and that a water nucleophile attacks the Asp C _ O in the hydrolysis partial reaction.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (EC 3.11.1.1), the bacterial enzyme that catalyses the reaction HCO-CH2-PO(OH)2+H2O leads to HCO-CH3+Pi, is inactivated by borohydride if either phosphonoacetaldehyde or acetaldehyde is present. This supports the suggestion that the substrate forms an imine with an amino group of the enzyme. Such imine formation would labilize the C-P bond in the same way that aldolase and related enzymes labilize C-C and C-H bonds (Scheme 1a).
Phosphoacetaldehyde hydrolase (2-oxoethylphosphonate phosphonohydrolase, EC 3.11.1.1) has been purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from cells of Pseudomonas aeruginosa A 237 grown in a culture medium containing 2-aminoethylphosphonate as both phosphorus and carbon sources. The native M r , has been estimated to be 62 000 ± 2000, using a gel filtration column equilibrated with standard proteins. A subunit of M r 30 000 ± 1000 determined in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gives evidence of a homodimeric structure. The enzyme, which catalyzes the C P bond cleavage of phosphonoacetaldehyde, has a K m value of 210 μM. It is moderately inhibited by methyl-, ethyl-, propyl- and butylphosphonic acids and activated by aminomethyl-, aminoethylphosphonic acids as well as by phosphonoformic, phosphonoacetic and phosphonopropionic acids. Inhibition by orthophosphite is a time-dependent process which exhibits first-order kinetics and is enhanced by the presence of acetaldehyde. Assays for phosphite removal by dilution or dialysis do not reverse the inhibition. Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase inactivation by phosphite ion appeears to be inconsistent with the concept of a Schiff base intermediate as proposed for Bacillus cereus enzyme.
The biosynthetic step following the phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) phosphomutase reaction which forms a C-P bond of bialaphos was proven by the identification of phosphonopyruvate (PnPy) and phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA) as intermediates in the culture broth of Streptomyces hygroscopicus, a producing organism of bialaphos, and by detection of enzymatic decarboxylation of PnPy to PnAA. Purified PnPy decarboxylase turned out to require thiamine diphosphate and Mg2+ as cofactors. PnPy decarboxylase drives the unfavorable forward reaction to form PnPy catalyzed by PEP phosphomutase and is suggested to be essential to C-P compound biosynthesis.
The 2-aminoethylphosphonate transaminase (AEPT; the phnW gene product) of the Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium 2-aminoethylphosphonate (AEP) degradation pathway catalyzes the reversible reaction of AEP and pyruvate to form phosphonoacetaldehyde (P-Ald) and L-alanine (L-Ala). Here, we describe the purification and characterization of recombinant AEPT. pH rate profiles (log V(m) and log V(m)/K(m) versus pH) revealed a pH optimum of 8.5. At pH 8.5, K(eq) is equal to 0.5 and the k(cat) values of the forward and reverse reactions are 7 and 9 s(-1), respectively. The K(m) for AEP is 1.11 +/- 0.03 mM; for pyruvate it is 0.15 +/- 0.02 mM, for P-Ald it is 0.09 +/- 0.01 mM, and for L-Ala it is 1.4 +/- 0.03 mM. Substrate specificity tests revealed a high degree of discrimination, indicating a singular physiological role for the transaminase in AEP degradation. The 40-kDa subunit of the homodimeric enzyme is homologous to other members of the pyridoxalphosphate-dependent amino acid transaminase superfamily. Catalytic residues conserved within well-characterized members are also conserved within the seven known AEPT sequences. Site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated the importance of three selected residues (Asp168, Lys194, and Arg340) in AEPT catalysis.
The 2-aminoethylphosphonate transaminase (AEPT; the phnW gene product) of the Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium 2-aminoethylphosphonate (AEP) degradation pathway catalyzes the reversible reaction of AEP and pyruvate to form phosphonoacetaldehyde (P-Ald) and L-alanine (L-Ala). Here, we describe the purification and characterization of recombinant AEPT. pH rate profiles (log V m and log V m /K m versus pH) revealed a pH optimum of 8.5. At pH 8.5, K eq is equal to 0.5 and the k cat values of the forward and reverse reactions are 7 and 9 s ؊1 , respectively. The K m for AEP is 1.11 ؎ 0.03 mM; for pyruvate it is 0.15 ؎ 0.02 mM, for P-Ald it is 0.09 ؎ 0.01 mM, and for L-Ala it is 1.4 ؎ 0.03 mM. Substrate specificity tests revealed a high degree of discrimination, indicating a singular physiological role for the transaminase in AEP degradation. The 40-kDa subunit of the homodimeric enzyme is homologous to other members of the pyridoxalphosphatedependent amino acid transaminase superfamily. Catalytic residues conserved within well-characterized members are also conserved within the seven known AEPT sequences. Site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated the importance of three selected residues (Asp168, Lys194, and Arg340) in AEPT catalysis.
The metabolism of 2-amino-3-phosphono-[2-(14)C]propionic acid or 2-amino-3-phosphono-[3-(14)C]propionic acid in rats was studied in vivo and in vitro. The radioactivity in expired CO2 from the [3-(14)C]-labelled compound indicated the cleavage of the carbon-phosphorus (C-P) bond. A small amount of the [2-(14)C]-labelled compound and the [3-(14C]-labelled compound was incorporated into 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid, and polar lipid of the liver and kidney contained the 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid. The 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid was not detected at the lipid level. Incorporation of the [3-(14)C]-labelled compound into a variety of metabolites including 3-phosphonopyruvic acid and 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde suggests the transamination reaction as a decomposition mechanism of 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid in mammals.
Summary A strain of Pseudomonas putida that utilized the biogenic organophosphonate 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid as sole carbon and energy, nitrogen and phosphorus source contained 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid: pyruvate aminotransferase and phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) activities which were inducible by the presence of 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid in the culture medium, regardless of the phosphate status of the cells. Neither of these activities were induced in either phosphate-free or phosphate-replete medium in the absence of 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid. Alkaline phosphatase activity was induced in phosphate limited medium, however, indicating a phosphate-starvation inducible re- sponse. In Enterobacter aerogenes IFO 12010, 2-aminoethylphosphonate : pyruvate aminotransferase and phosphonatase activities were induced only when cells were both phosphate limited and supplied with 2- aminoethylphosphonic acid as sole phosphorus source for growth. Neither enzyme activity was induced in phosphate-replete medium, or in medium where both 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and inorganic phosphate were supplied as sources of phosphorus. The results point to the presence of a substrate inducible 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid biodegradation pathway in the isolated strain of Pseudomonas putida . Uniquely, therefore, the pathway is not under pho regulon control in this strain.
2-Aminoethylphosphonate was similarly utilized with equivalent growth rates and cellular yields, while 3-aminopropyl-, 4-aminobutyl-, methyl-, ethyl-, and phenylphosphonates served only as phosphorus sources. A wide range of organophosphonates (compounds containing a stable carbon-to-phosphorus [C-P] bond) can be metabolized by bacteria as the sole phosphorus source (10). At least two enzymes have been implicated in C-P bond cleavage. Phosphonatase (phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase; EC 3.11.1.1) has been shown to be specific to the activated C-P bond of phosphonoacetaldehyde; C-P lyase appears to have broad substrate specificity and to carry out a direct C-P bond cleavage, although no activity has been obtained in cell extracts (13) . Evidence for a third C-P bond cleavage enzyme, termed C-P hydrolase, has been presented (8), but no organic product could be detected.
Two organisms have been reported to utilize organophosphonates as the sole carbon source. Pseudomonas putida metabolized phosphonoacetaldehyde via acetaldehyde (3), while Agrobacterium radiobacter degraded the herbicide glyphosate via carbon-nitrogen bond cleavage with utilization of the resulting glyoxylate as the sole carbon source (7). However, no organism has been reported that will utilize an organophosphonate as a carbon source by direct cleavage of the C-P bond by C-P lyase. This may be explained by the regulation of both phosphonate uptake and C-P lyase activity by phosphate (9) The ability of isolate 23F to utilize a range of organophosphonates as the sole carbon and phosphorus source, or as the sole phosphorus source with glucose (5 g liter-1) as the carbon source, is shown in Table 1 ; its growth on 10 mM phosphonoacetate as the sole carbon and phosphorus source is shown in Fig. 1 . The inocula (0.5% [vol/vol]) used in these experiments consisted of late-log-phase cells pregrown in the same medium and contained approximately 9 ,lmol of orthophosphate ml-1; an identical result was obtained if a washed inoculum in which phosphate levels were reduced to 35 nmol ml-' was used.
Phosphonopyruvate hydrolase, a novel bacterial carbon-phosphorus bond cleavage enzyme, was purified to homogeneity by a series of chromatographic steps from cell extracts of a newly isolated environmental strain of Variovorax sp. Pal2. The enzyme was inducible in the presence of phosphonoalanine or phosphonopyruvate; unusually, its expression was independent of the phosphate status of the cell. The native enzyme had a molecular mass of 63 kDa with a subunit mass of 31.2 kDa. Activity of purified phosphonopyruvate hydrolase was Co2+-dependent and showed a pH optimum of 6.7-7.0. The enzyme had a Km of 0.53 mm for its sole substrate, phosphonopyruvate, and was inhibited by the analogues phosphonoformic acid, 3-phosphonopropionic acid, and hydroxymethylphosphonic acid. The nucleotide sequence of the phosphonopyruvate hydrolase structural gene indicated that it is a member of the phosphoenolpyruvate phosphomutase/isocitrate lyase superfamily with 41% identity at the amino acid level to the carbon-to-phosphorus bond-forming enzyme phosphoenolpyruvate phosphomutase from Tetrahymena pyriformis. Thus its apparently ancient evolutionary origins differ from those of each of the two carbon-phosphorus hydrolases that have been reported previously; phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase is a member of the haloacetate dehalogenase family, whereas phosphonoacetate hydrolase belongs to the alkaline phosphatase superfamily of zinc-dependent hydrolases. Phosphonopyruvate hydrolase is likely to be of considerable significance in global phosphorus cycling, because phosphonopyruvate is known to be a key intermediate in the formation of all naturally occurring compounds that contain the carbon-phosphorus bond.
Minerals may have played a significant role in chemical evolution. In the course of investigating the chemistry of phosphonoacetaldehyde (PAL), an analogue of glycolaldehyde phosphate, we have observed a striking case of catalysis by the layered hydroxide mineral hydrotalcite ([Mg2Al(OH)6][Cl.nH2O]). In neutral or moderately basic aqueous solutions, PAL is unreactive even at a concentration of 0.1 M. In the presence of a large excess of NaOH (2 M), the compound undergoes aldol condensation to produce a dimer containing a C3–C4 double-bond. In dilute neutral solutions and in the presence of the mineral, however, condensation takes place rapidly, to produce a dimer which is almost exclusively the C2–C3 unsaturated product.
Phosphonates allow certain organisms to thrive in otherwise hostile environments, and 2-aminoethylphosphonate (AEP) is a precursor of many cellular phosphonates. AEP transaminase (AEPT) is an enzyme essential to phosphonate synthesis and degradation pathways. The crystal structure of AEP transaminase was determined by multiwavelength anomalous diffraction of 66 selenium atoms. The refined structure at 2.2 A resolution revealed an overall fold and active site location similar to those of the dimeric, two-domain structure of type I aminotransferases. The active site contains a cofactor, pyridoxal 5‘-phosphate (PLP), and the product phosphonoacetaldehyde. Comparison with other type I aminotransferase structures shows that the PLP−protein interactions are conserved. Modeling of bound substrates and products reveals the structural basis for AEP recognition and the stereospecificity of proton elimination at the α-carbon and indicates conformational changes along the reaction pathway.
Abstract 1. 1. Cell-free preparations from a strain of Bacillus cereus isolated in our laboratory release orthophosphate (Pi) from 2-aminoethylphosphonate (AEP). The overall reaction is dependent on the presence of pyridoxal phosphate and pyruvate in the reaction mixture. 2. 2. An intermediate has been isolated from the reaction mixture and identified as 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde on a number of criteria, including comparison with the authentic compound. 3. 3. Synthetic 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde is degraded by the cell-free preparations to acetaldehyde and Pi. This reaction is inhibited by orthosphosphite, and is not dependent on the presence of pyridoxal phosphate and pyruvate. 4. 4. This work establishes the following pathway for the breakdown of AEP in B. cereus:
(1R,2S)-Epoxypropylphosphonic acid, also known as fosfomycin, is a clinically utilized, highly effective antibiotic that has low toxicity and is effective against methicillin and vancomycin resistant pathogens. Seminal pioneering studies by Seto and Hammerschmidt using genetic techniques complemented by feeding studies with isotopically labeled precursors suggested the biosynthetic pathway for fosfomycin shown in Scheme 1A. Yet, the mechanism of an unprecedented methyl transfer step in the biosynthesis of fosfomycin has remained unresolved. We recently identified the complete biosynthetic cluster for this natural product from Streptomyces fradiae and achieved heterologous production in S. lividans. Here we use genetic and chemical complementation studies to show that fomC, a gene with a previously unknown role in fosfomycin biosynthesis, is absolutely required for heterologous production. These results in combination with bioinformatics analysis lead to a radically different mechanism for the methyltransferase encoded by fom3. In the currently accepted biosynthetic pathway for fosfomycin (Scheme 1A), PEP is converted to phosphonopyruvate (PnPy) by PEP mutase (Fom1), followed by decarboxylation by Fom2 to produce phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA). In the subsequent step, Fom3 has been proposed to catalyze transfer of a methyl anion from methylcobalamin (MeCbl) to PnAA to form 2-hydroxypropylphosphonate (HPP) (Scheme 2). In the final step, HPP is oxidized by Fom4 to form the epoxide of fosfomycin. The proposed mechanism of the methyl transfer reaction catalyzed by Fom3 is fundamentally different from the mechanisms for all known MeCbl dependent methyltransferases in which methylation takes place via nucleophilic attack by the substrate at the methyl group of MeCbl. Intrigued by the apparent mechanistic paradox in how Fom3 would utilize B12 for methyl transfer, we initiated a reinvestigation of the pathway. Several genes besides fom1–4 have been suggested to be part of the biosynthetic cluster and were labeled fomA–F. FomA and FomB provide resistance to fosfomycin via phosphorylation. We recently proposed a function for fomD and determined that fomE,F are not involved directly in fosfomycin production. No function has yet been proposed for fomC. Seto and coworkers showed that a mutant strain with a block in the vitamin B12 biosynthetic pathway could not produce fosfomycin, but did convert HPP to fosfomycin. In addition C-labeled MeCbl fed to this blocked mutant resulted in Clabeled fosfomycin. Based on these results, it was proposed that MeCbl was the methyl donor. However, no intermediates could be isolated from the mutants in which either the B12 pathway 15 or the putative methyltransferase Fom3 was disrupted and neither PnAA nor aminoethylphosphonate (AEP) could be converted to fosfomycin in S. lividans expressing Fom3 and Fom4, whereas HPP was successfully converted. Thus, although the pathway in
Rhizocticins are phosphonate oligopeptide antibiotics containing the C-terminal nonproteinogenic amino acid (Z)-l-2-amino-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (APPA). Here we report the identification and characterization of the rhizocticin biosynthetic gene cluster (rhi) in Bacillus subtilis ATCC6633. Rhizocticin B was heterologously produced in the nonproducer strain Bacillus subtilis 168. A biosynthetic pathway is proposed on the basis of bioinformatics analysis of the rhi genes. One of the steps during the biosynthesis of APPA is an unusual aldol reaction between phosphonoacetaldehyde and oxaloacetate catalyzed by an aldolase homolog RhiG. Recombinant RhiG was prepared, and the product of an in vitro enzymatic conversion was characterized. Access to this intermediate allows for biochemical characterization of subsequent steps in the pathway.
N10-Formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase from bacteria and yeast catalyzes a slow formate-dependent ADP formation in the absence of H4folate. The synthesis of formyl phosphate by the enzyme was detected by trapping the intermediate as formyl hydroxamate. That the "formate kinase" activity was part of the catalytic center of N10-formyltetrahydrofolate synthetase was shown by demonstrating coordinate inactivation of the "kinase" and synthetase activities by heat and a sulfhydryl reagent, similar effects of monovalent cations, similar Km values for substrates, and similar Ki values for the inhibitor phosphonoacetaldehyde for both activities. The relative rates of the kinase activities for the bacterial and yeast enzymes are about 10(-4) and 4 x 10(-6) of their respective synthetase activities. These slow rates for the kinase reaction can be explained by the slow dissociation of ADP and formyl phosphate from the enzyme. This conclusion is supported by rapid-quench studies where a "burst" of ADP formation (6.4 s-1) was observed that is considerably faster than the steady-state rate (0.024 s-1). The demonstration of enzyme-bound products by a micropartition assay and the lack of a significant formate-stimulated exchange between ADP and ATP provide further evidence for the slow release of the products from the enzyme. The synthesis of N10-CHO-H4folate when H4folate was added to the E-formyl phosphate-ADP complex is also characterized by a "burst" of product formation. The rate of this burst phase at 5 degrees C occurs with a rate constant of 18 s-1 compared to 14 s-1 for the overall reaction at the same temperature. These results provide further evidence for formyl phosphate as an intermediate in the reaction and are consistent with the sequential mechanism of the normal catalytic pathway. Positional isotope exchange experiments using [beta,gamma-18O]ATP showed no evidence for exchange during turnover experiments in the presence of either H4folate or the competitive inhibitor pteroyltriglutamate. The absence of scrambling of the 18O label as observed by 31P NMR suggests that the central complex may impose restraints to limit free rotation of the P beta oxygens of the product ADP.
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (PAH) catalyzes the hydrolysis of the P-C bond in phosphonoacetaldehyde (PA) to yield P/sub i/ and acetaldehyde (AA). The enzyme requires MgS and is inactivated by NaBH4 in the presence of PA. The mechanism of PAH may be analogous to the US -ketodecarboxylases in which Mg may activate the substrate for bond cleavage or in which a Schiff base may be formed. They reported that PAH is inactivated by PA (100%) and AA (> 75%) in the presence of NaBH4. The enzyme retained significant incorporation of label from NaBT4 in the presence of PA vs. a control (E + NaBT4). To further probe the inactivation the enzyme was treated under 4 different rxn conditions: (1) NaBT4 + PA (2) UC-AA, NaBH4 (3) TH-C1-PA, NaBH4 (4) TH-C2-PA, NaBH4 and then each was cleaved with trypsin. The peptide fragments were separated by RP-HPLC to determine whether selective reduction had occurred. Preparation 4 yielded the most specific means of reductive labeling. N-epsilon-Ethyl- and N-epsilon-phosphonoethyl-Lysine, the two imine forms susceptible to NaBH4 reduction, were synthesized and used as standards for amino acid sequence analysis. The active site peptide's structure was found to be -Leu-EtLys-Ile-Asp-X-Val-Arg-, where X has yet to be identified. Themore » EtLys derivative was the only amino acid that contained radioactivity.« less
2-Aminoethylphosphonate aminotransferase has been purified to homogeneity with a yield of 15% from cell extracts of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated by gel filtration to be 65000 ± 2000. Sodium dedecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis yielded a molecular weight of 16500 ± 1000, suggesting a tetrameric model for this protein. The absorption spectrum exhibits maxima at 280 nm, 335 nm and 415 nm which are characteristic of a pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent enzyme: 4 mol of pyridoxal 5′-phosphate/mol of enzyme have been found. ::: ::: ::: ::: This aminotransferase catalyzes the transfer of the amino group of 2-aminoethylphosphonate (ciliatine) to pyruvate to give 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde and alanine. A pH optimum between 8.5–9 and an activity increasing from 30°C to 50°C have been observe. The reaction follows Michaelis-Menten kinetics with Km values of 3.85 mM and 3.5 mM for ciliatine and pyruvate respectively. ::: ::: ::: ::: This enzyme shows a very high specificity since ciliatine and pyruvate are pyruvate are the only amino donor and acceptor respectively. Methyl, ethyl and propylphosphonic acids are better competitors towards ciliatine than their α-amino derivatives. 3-Aminopropylphosphonate, the higher homologue of ciliatine, is recognized neither as a substrate nor as an inhibitor. The enzyme activity is significantly affected by carbonyl reagents and by HgCl2. ::: ::: ::: ::: Transamination of 2-aminoethylphosphonate is the first step of a double-step pathway which leads to the cleavage of its C-P bond.
The mechanisms by which phosphorus-carbon bonds are made and are broken in biological systems are not well understood. In their laboratory they have examined the biosynthesis and biodegradation of the most predominate phosphonate in nature, 2-aminoethylphosphonate (AEP). In Bacillus cereus AEP is first converted to phosphonoacetaldehyde (PA) before hydrolysis of the P-C linkage takes place. They have examined the catalytic mechanism of the enzyme which catalyzes this hydrolysis, phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase). Treatment of the enzyme with (/sup 3/H)-PA and NaBH/sub 4/ resulted in ethylation of an active site lysine and loss of catalytic activity. Thus, hydrolysis appears to occur via a covalent imine intermediate. Their studies of AEP biosynthesis in Tetrahymena pyriformis have focused on testing the precursor roles of PEP, phosphonopyruvate and PA. Resuspended microsomes were found to catalyze in the presence of pyridoxal phosphate and alanine, the conversion of these three precursors to AEP. The P-C bond appears to be formed by rearrangement of PEP.
Summary Phosphonates (C-PO 3 2− ) have applications as antibiotics, herbicides, and detergents. In some environments, these molecules represent the predominant source of phosphorus, and several microbes have evolved dedicated enzymatic machineries for phosphonate degradation. For example, most common naturally occurring phosphonates can be catabolized to either phosphonoacetaldehyde or phosphonoacetate, which can then be hydrolyzed to generate inorganic phosphate and acetaldehyde or acetate, respectively. The phosphonoacetaldehyde oxidase gene ( phnY ) links these two hydrolytic processes and provides a previously unknown catabolic mechanism for phosphonoacetate production in the microbial metabolome. Here, we present biochemical characterization of PhnY and high-resolution crystal structures of the apo state, as well as complexes with substrate, cofactor, and product. Kinetic analysis of active site mutants demonstrates how a highly conserved aldehyde dehydrogenase active site has been modified in nature to generate activity with a phosphonate substrate.
Kinetic studies with substrate analogs and group-directed chemical modification agents were carried out for the purpose of identifying the enzyme-substrate interactions required for phosphonoacetaldehyde (P-Ald) binding and catalyzed hydrolysis by P-Ald hydrolase (phosphonatase). Malonic semialdehyde (Ki = 1.6 mM), phosphonoacetate (Ki = 10 mM), phosphonoethanol (Ki = 10 mM), and fluorophosphate (Ki = 20 mM) were found to be competitive inhibitors of the enzyme but not substrates. Thiophosphonoacetaldehyde and acetonyl phosphonate underwent phosphonatase-catalyzed hydrolysis but at 20-fold and 140-fold slower rates, respectively, than did P-Ald. In the presence of NaBH4, acetonyl-phosphonate inactivated phosphonatase at a rate exceeding that of its turnover. Sequence analysis of the radiolabeled tryptic peptide generated from [3-3H]acetonylphosphonate/NaBH4-treated phosphonatase revealed that Schiff base formation had occurred with the catalytic lysine. From the Vm/Km and Vm pH profiles for phosphonatase-catalyzed P-Ald hydrolysis, an optimal pH range of 6-8 was defined for substrate binding and catalysis. The pH dependence of inactivation by acetylation of the active site lysine with acetic anhydride and 2,4-dinitrophenyl acetate evidenced protonation of the active site lysine residue as the cause for activity loss below pH 6. The pH dependence of inactivation of an active site cysteine residue with methyl methanethiol-sulfonate indicated that deprotonation of this residue may be the cause for the loss of enzyme activity above pH 8.
Escherichia coli as well as many other bacterial species are able to use a number of phosphorus-containing compounds as phosphate source. The preferred source is inorganic phosphate ion (P i ). When P i is low or absent, expression of the operons of the Pho regulon is derepressed and other phosphate sources may be utilized. Thus, phosphate esters and organophosphonates also are P i sources for E. coli. Utilization of organophosphonates as P i source by E. coli requires the 14-cistron phnCDEFGHIJKLMNOP operon, which is a member of the Pho regulon, and which specifies the carbonphosphorus (C-P) lyase pathway [1, 2] . E. coli is capable of utilizing both alkylphosphonates, such as methyl-(MePn), ethyl-(EtPn) and propylphosphonate (PrPn) as well as aminoalkylphosphonates, such as aminomethyl-(AmMePn), 2-aminoethyl-(2AmEtPn) and 3-aminopropylphosphonate (3AmPrPn) as P i source. Utilization of both types of phosphonate is dependent on an ATP-binding cassette transport system (encoded by phnCDE) [1, 3] , as well as two additional apparent nucleotide-binding domains for organophosphonate transport (encoded by phnK and phnL) [1] , the enzymes C-P lyase (encoded by phnJ and presumable also phnGHI) [1, 4] , PhnM [5] , a-D-ribosyl 1,5-bisphosphate phosphokinase (encoded by phnN) [6] and phosphoribosyl cyclic phosphodiesterase (encoded by phnP) [7] . The phnF cistron likely encodes a repressor of phn operon expression [8] . E. coli phnO may specify an enzyme with aminoalkylphosphonate N-acetyltransferase activity as evaluated by amino acid sequence similarity with the phnO gene product of Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium [9] . The physiological function of S. enterica aminoalkylphosphonate N-acetyltransferase is presently unknown as this organism does not contain C-P lyase. In contrast, S. enterica contains the enzyme phosphonoacetaldehyde phosphohydrolase, which is encoded by the phnX gene [10] , and which is responsible for the catabolism of 2AmEtPn.
The metalloid arsenic, 20th most common element in the earth's crust, is chemically similar to phosphorus, also in group 15 of the elements. Thus bioalkylated forms of arsenic are distributed widely (cf. organophosphonates). Such arsenical compounds may arise from the need of organisms to protect themselves from the uncoupling effects of arsenate, which they cannot avoid taking in by their phosphate-concentrating mechanisms. The fact that arsenate is much more easily reduced than phosphate may make the observed alkylations possible. Examples of bioalkylated products include methylarsonic and dimethylarsinic (cacodylic) acids, which are predominant in terrestrial environments, and more complex species such as arsenobetaine, arsenocholine, and arsenolipids and arsenosugars, which are abundant in marine ecosystems (Andreae, 1986 ; Edmonds & Francesconi, 1987 ; Cullen & Reimer, 1989; Francesconi & Edmonds, 1993). In addition, xenobiotic compounds containing the C-As bond still enter the environment in a variety of agricultural applications -some 11 000 tonnes annually in the United States (Abernathy, 1983). Most significant are the continuing uses of arsanilic acid, 3-nitro-4-hydroxyphenylarsonic acid and 4-nitrophenylarsonic acid as animal feed additives, and of dimethylarsinic acid, and the mono-and di-sodium salts of methylarsonic acid, as cotton defoliants Although extensive research has been undertaken on the mechanisms, and the extent, of bioalkylation of arsenic (reviewed by Thayer, 1993; Gadd, 1993) much less is known about the environmental fate of organoarsenicals, and a lack of information on the mechanisms of C-As bond cleavage constitutes the weakest link in our understanding of the biogeochemical cycling of the element. The process is attributed exclusively to microbial activity (Andreae, 1986) ; thus the co-metabolism of arsenobetaine by marine sedimentary bacteria has been demonstrated, although the compound did not itself support bacterial growth (Hanaoka e t al., 1987(Hanaoka e t al., , 1991(Hanaoka e t al., , 1992. Similarly, the slow mineralization of methylarsonate to arsenate and CO, by a number of genera of soil bacteria has been described, although such demethylation occurred only in a yeast-extract-or acetate-based medium (Von Endt e t al., 1968; Shariatpahani e t al., 1983). To our knowledge, however, in no instance has any micro-organism capable of the utilization of an organoarsenical as sole carbon and energy source yet been reported. Nor is any information available on the enzymology of the C-As bond cleavage reaction ; for example, the C-P-bond-cleaving enzymes phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase and phosphonoacetate hydrolase show no activity towards their arsonate analogues (Lacoste e t al., 1992; McMullan & Quinn, 1994 
Phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase (phosphonatase) catalyzes the hydrolysis of phosphonoacetaldehyde to acetaldehyde and phosphate using Mg(II) as cofactor. The reaction proceeds via a novel bicovalent catalytic mechanism in which an active-site nucleophile abstracts the phosphoryl group from the Schiff-base intermediate formed from Lys53 and phosphonoacetaldehyde. In this study, the X-ray crystal structure of the Bacillus cereus phosphonatase homodimer complexed with the phosphate (product) analogue tungstate (Ki = 50 μM) and the Mg(II) cofactor was determined to 3.0 A resolution with an Rcryst = 0.248 and Rfree = 0.284. Each monomer is made up of an α/β core domain consisting of a centrally located six-stranded parallel β-sheet surrounded by six α-helices. Two flexible, solvated linkers connect to a small cap domain (residues 21−99) that consists of an antiparallel, five-helix bundle. The subunit−subunit interface, formed by the symmetrical packing of the two α8 helices from the respective core domains, is...
Phosphonic acids are the only phosphorus-containing organic compounds detected in the Murchison meteorite. We earlier described the synthesis of methyl-, hydroxymethyl-, and 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acids using sodium phosphite as a source of phosphite radicals. We now show that ultraviolet irradiation of dilute aqueous solutions of acetylene in the presence of sodium phosphite leads to the synthesis of vinyl phosphonic acid. At neutral to basic pH, vinyl phosphonic acid reacts under photochemical conditions to produce phosphonoacetaldehyde and 2-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid as the major products, as well as smaller yields of 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and ethyl phosphonic acid. Of these products, phosphonoacetaldehyde is particularly interesting as a potential precursor of prebiotic carbohydrate derivatives.
The haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) superfamily includes a variety of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of substrate C-Cl, P-C, and P-OP bonds via nucleophilic substitution pathways. All members possess the alpha/beta core domain, and many also possess a small cap domain. The active site of the core domain is formed by four loops (corresponding to sequence motifs 1-4), which position substrate and cofactor-binding residues as well as the catalytic groups that mediate the "core" chemistry. The cap domain is responsible for the diversification of chemistry within the family. A tight beta-turn in the helix-loop-helix motif of the cap domain contains a stringently conserved Gly (within sequence motif 5), flanked by residues whose side chains contribute to the catalytic site formed at the domain-domain interface. To define the role of the conserved Gly in the structure and function of the cap domain loop of the HAD superfamily members phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase and beta-phosphoglucomutase, the Gly was mutated to Pro, Val, or Ala. The catalytic activity was severely reduced in each mutant. To examine the impact of Gly substitution on loop 5 conformation, the X-ray crystal structure of the Gly50Pro phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase mutant was determined. The altered backbone conformation at position 50 had a dramatic effect on the spatial disposition of the side chains of neighboring residues. Lys53, the Schiff Base forming lysine, had rotated out of the catalytic site and the side chain of Leu52 had moved to fill its place. On the basis of these studies, it was concluded that the flexibility afforded by the conserved Gly is critical to the function of loop 5 and that it is a marker by which the cap domain substrate specificity loop can be identified within the amino acid sequence of HAD family members.
Abstract. Phosphonic acids are the only phosphoruscontaining organic compounds detected in the Murchison meteorite. We earlier described the synthesis of methyl-, hydroxymethyl-, and 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acids using sodium phosphite as a source of phosphite radicals. We now show that ultraviolet irradiation of dilute aqueous solutions of acetylene in the presence of sodium phosphite leads to the synthesis of vinyl phosphonic acid. At neutral to basic pH, vinyl phosphonic acid reacts under photochemical conditions to produce phosphonoacetaldehyde and 2-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid as the major products, as well as smaller yields of 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and ethyl phosphonic acid. Of these products, phosphonoacetaldehyde is particularly interesting as a potential precursor of prebiotic carbohydrate derivatives.
As a possible synthetic route to ethyl phosphonic acid, and because C 2 compounds are interesting starting materials in prebiotic chemistry, we have studied the addition of phosphite radicals to acetylene. In the present paper we report the formation of vinyl phosphonic acid via this route. We also describe the production, from vinyl phosphonic acid, of phosphonoacetaldehyde, phosphonoacetic acid, ethyl-, 1-hydroxyethyl-, and 2-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acids. Phosphonoacetaldehyde is the phosphonic acid derivative produced in highest yield and is an extremely interesting potential prebiotic precursor. 1 H-NMR spectra were obtained using a Bruker AC-100 or AM-400 spectrometer. Chemical shifts (␦) are given in parts per million (ppm) referenced to tetramethylsilane. 31 P-NMR spectra were obtained using a Bruker AM-400 spectrometer. Chemical shifts are given in ppm referenced to trimethylphosphate.
HPLC Analysis of Phosphonoacetaldehyde as the 2,4-DNPH Derivative. To 0.5-ml samples of irradiated solutions was added 0.5 ml of 2.5 mM 2,4-DNPH in 2 M HCl. After 30 min at room temp. 20 l was injected onto a Merck LiChrospher 100 RP-18 column (25 cm). Elution was with 0.02 M KH 2 PO 4 (pH 4.0) for 5 min at 60 ml/h followed by a linear gradient of 100% 0.02 M KH 2 PO 4 (pH 4.0) to 100% MeOH/ water (3:2) in 25 min. Peak detection was carried out at 360 nm.
ABSTRACT: The haloacid dehalogenase (HAD) superfamily includes a variety of enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of substrate C-Cl, P-C, and P-OP bonds via nucleophilic substitution pathways. All members possess the R/ core domain, and many also possess a small cap domain. The active site of the core domain is formed by four loops (corresponding to sequence motifs 1-4), which position substrate and cofactor-binding residues as well as the catalytic groups that mediate the "core" chemistry. The cap domain is responsible for the diversification of chemistry within the family. A tight -turn in the helix-loophelix motif of the cap domain contains a stringently conserved Gly (within sequence motif 5), flanked by residues whose side chains contribute to the catalytic site formed at the domain-domain interface. To define the role of the conserved Gly in the structure and function of the cap domain loop of the HAD superfamily members phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase and -phosphoglucomutase, the Gly was mutated to Pro, Val, or Ala. The catalytic activity was severely reduced in each mutant. To examine the impact of Gly substitution on loop 5 conformation, the X-ray crystal structure of the Gly50Pro phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase mutant was determined. The altered backbone conformation at position 50 had a dramatic effect on the spatial disposition of the side chains of neighboring residues. Lys53, the Schiff Base forming lysine, had rotated out of the catalytic site and the side chain of Leu52 had moved to fill its place. On the basis of these studies, it was concluded that the flexibility afforded by the conserved Gly is critical to the function of loop 5 and that it is a marker by which the cap domain substrate specificity loop can be identified within the amino acid sequence of HAD family members.
Incubation of 2-amino-3-phosphono[3-14C]propionic acid with cell-free preparations of Tetrahymena pyriformis resulted in incorporation of the radioactivity into phosphoenolpyruvate. No radioactivity was incorporated into phosphoenolpyruvate and 2-phosphonoacetate. Thus, the catabolic pathway of 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid in Tetrahymena appears to be the same route as that found in rats through deamination to produce 3-phosphonopyruvate which is converted to 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde by decarboxylation, followed by both dephosphonylation and amination of the aldehyde to give acetaldehyde and 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid, respectively.
The effect of n-butylphosphonic acid on the activity of phosphonoacetaldehyde hydrolase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa was investigated: at low concentrations this compound appeared as an activator of the enzyme activity, whereas at higher concentrations it exhibited inhibitory properties. The experimental results were modelled according to an allosteric model involving two different classes of sites for n-butylphosphonic acid.
2-Aminoethylphosphonate aminotransferase has been purified to homogeneity with a yield of 15% from cell extracts of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated by gel filtration to be 65000 +/- 2000. Sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis yielded a molecular weight of 16500 +/- 1000, suggesting a tetrameric model for this protein. The absorption spectrum exhibits maxima at 280 nm, 335 nm and 415 nm which are characteristic of a pyridoxal-phosphate-dependent enzyme: 4 mol of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate/mol of enzyme have been found. This aminotransferase catalyzes the transfer of the amino group of 2-aminoethylphosphonate (ciliatine) to pyruvate to give 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde and alanine. A pH optimum between 8.5-9 and an activity increasing from 30 degrees C to 50 degrees C have been observed. The reaction follows Michaelis-Menten kinetics with Km values of 3.85 mM and 3.5 mM for ciliatine and pyruvate respectively. This enzyme shows a very high specificity since ciliatine and pyruvate are the only amino donor and acceptor respectively. Methyl, ethyl and propylphosphonic acids are better competitors towards ciliatine than their alpha-amino derivatives. 3-Aminopropylphosphonate, the higher homologue of ciliatine, is recognized neither as a substrate nor as an inhibitor. The enzyme activity is significantly affected by carbonyl reagents and by HgCl2. Transamination of 2-aminoethylphosphonate is the first step of a double-step pathway which leads to the cleavage of its C-P bond.
