4,5 AHAS catalyzes the condensation of two molecules of pyruvate to give rise to 2-acetolactate in the first step of valine and leucine biosynthesis, and in parallel, it also catalyzes the condensation of pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate to yield 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate in the second step of isoleucine biosynthesis.
The enzyme catalyzes an unusual two-step reaction molecule and bridged by the carboxylate moiety of an (Figure 1 ) consisting of an alkyl migration in which aspartate residue. The inhibitor-binding site is well the substrate, either 2-acetolactate (AL) or 2-aceto-2-adjusted to it, with a hydrophobic pocket and a polar hydroxybutyrate (AHB), is converted to 3-hydroxy-3-region. Only 24 amino acids are conserved among methyl-2-oxobutyrate or 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-2-oxopenknown acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase sequences tanoate, followed by a NADPH-dependent reduction to and all of these are located around the active site.
l-Valine belongs to the branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) and is an essential amino acid that is crucial for all living organisms. l-Valine is industrially produced by the nonpathogenic bacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum and is synthesized by the BCAA biosynthetic pathway. Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI) is the second enzyme in the BCAA pathway and catalyzes the conversion of (S)-2-acetolactate into (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-isovalerate, or the conversion of (S)-2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate into (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate. To elucidate the enzymatic properties of KARI from C. glutamicum (CgKARI), we successfully produced CgKARI protein and determined its crystal structure in complex with NADP+ and two Mg2+ ions. Based on the complex structure, docking simulations, and site-directed mutagenesis experiments, we revealed that CgKARI belongs to Class I KARI and identified key residues involved in stabilization of the substrate, metal ions, and cofactor. Furthermore, we confirmed the difference in the bindi...
Specific isotopic labeling of methyl groups in proteins has greatly extended the applicability of solution NMR spectroscopy. Simultaneous labeling of the methyl groups of several different amino acid types can offer a larger number of useful probes that can be used for structural characterisations of challenging proteins. Herein, we propose an improved AILV methyl-labeling protocol in which L and V are stereo-specifically labeled. We show that 2-ketobutyrate cannot be combined with Ala and 2-acetolactate (for the stereo-specific labeling of L and V) as this results in co-incorporation incompatibility and isotopic scrambling. Thus, we developed a robust and cost-effective enzymatic synthesis of the isoleucine precursor, 2-hydroxy-2-(1'-[(2)H2], 2'-[(13)C])ethyl-3-keto-4-[(2)H3]butanoic acid, as well as an incorporation protocol that eliminates metabolic leakage. We show that application of this labeling scheme to a large 82 kDa protein permits the detection of long-range (1)H-(1)H NOE cross-peaks between methyl probes separated by up to 10 Å.
inhibition ͉ sulfonylurea ͉ x-ray crystallography ͉ imidazolinone ͉ thiamin diphosphate T he sulfonylurea and imidazolinone herbicides are an essential part of the multibillion-dollar weed-control market. There are now Ͼ30 herbicides from these families registered for worldwide use. A major advantage of these compounds is that they are nontoxic to animals, highly selective, and very potent, thereby allowing low application rates. These herbicides act by inhibiting acetohydroxyacid synthase [AHAS; also known as acetolactate synthase; EC 2.2.1.6 (1)], the first common enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of the branched-chain amino acids. The reaction carried out by this enzyme is the synthesis of either (S)-2-acetolactate from two molecules of pyruvate or (S)-2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate from a molecule each of pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate.
Acetohydroxyacid synthases (AHAS) catalyses the first step in de novo branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) biosynthesis, a pathway present in plants, fungi, algae and bacteria. It is the target for more than 50 commercial herbicides that are a foundation in weed control for all major crops. AHAS catalyses the condensation of pyruvate with another molecule of pyruvate, or with 2-ketobutyrate, to produce 2-acetolactate or 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, respectively (Fig 1) . Thiamin diphosphate (ThDP), flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and a divalent metal ion are all essential co-factors in this reaction. ThDP plays a central role by forming covalent bonds with the reaction intermediates [1] (Fig 1) . FAD is also absolutely required by AHAS for catalysis, although its involvement in a redox reaction has not been established [1] [2] [3] [4] . Tittmann and co-workers 4 have shown that in a side-reaction of AHAS, the catalytic intermediate 2-
Leucine and valine are formed in a common pathway from pyruvate in which the first intermediate is 2-acetolactate. In some bacteria, this compound also has a catabolic fate as the starting point for the butanediol fermentation. The enzyme (EC 4.1.3.18) that forms 2-acetolactate is known as either acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) or acetolactate synthase (ALS), with the latter name preferred for the catabolic enzyme. A significant difference between AHAS and ALS is that the former requires FAD for catalytic activity, although the reason for this requirement is not well understood. Both enzymes require the cofactor thiamine diphosphate. Here, the crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the Klebsiella pneumoniae ALS is reported. Data to 2.6 A resolution have been collected at 100 K using a rotating-anode generator and an R-AXIS IV++ detector. Crystals have unit-cell parameters a = 137.4, b = 143.9, c = 134.4 A, alpha = 90, beta = 108.4, gamma = 90 degrees and belong to space group C2. Preliminary analysis indicates that there are four monomers located in each asymmetric unit.
Leucine and valine are formed in a common pathway from pyruvate in which the ®rst intermediate is 2-acetolactate. In some bacteria, this compound also has a catabolic fate as the starting point for the butanediol fermentation. The enzyme (EC 4.1.3.18) that forms 2-acetolactate is known as either acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) or acetolactate synthase (ALS), with the latter name preferred for the catabolic enzyme. A signi®cant difference between AHAS and ALS is that the former requires FAD for catalytic activity, although the reason for this requirement is not well understood. Both enzymes require the cofactor thiamine diphosphate. Here, the crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the Klebsiella pneumoniae ALS is reported. Data to 2.6 A Ê resolution have been collected at 100 K using a rotating-anode generator and an R-AXIS IV++ detector. Crystals have unit-cell parameters a = 137.4, b = 143.9, c = 134.4 A Ê , = 90, = 108.4, = 90 and belong to space group C2. Preliminary analysis indicates that there are four monomers located in each asymmetric unit.
2-Acetolactate is the precursor of the branched-chain amino acids valine and leucine. The biosynthetic pathway for these amino acids is widely distributed in plants, fungi, algae and bacteria. In some bacteria, 2-acetolactate also has another entirely different fate in butanediol fermentation. Decarboxylation of 2-acetolactate yields acetoin, while oxidative decarboxylation yields diacetyl; the latter can be reduced to acetoin then further reduced to butanediol. Both acetoin and diacetyl are important¯avour components in fermented dairy products (Curic et al., 1999) and in beer (Dulieu et al., 2000) .
The formation of 2-acetolactate involves the decarboxylation of pyruvate followed by condensation with a second molecule of pyruvate. The enzyme that catalyzes this reaction (EC 4.1.3.18 ; reviewed by Duggleby & Pang, 2000) is known as either acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) or acetolactate synthase (ALS). In common with many other enzymes that cleave a CÐC bond adjacent to a carbonyl group, AHAS/ALS uses thiamine diphosphate (ThDP) as a cofactor. Unexpectedly, the enzyme from many species (Sto È rmer & Umbarger, 1964; Schloss et al., 1985; Chang & Duggleby, 1997; Pang & Duggleby, 1999 ) also requires¯avin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) as a cofactor. However, this is not a universal requirement and Sto È rmer (1968) showed clearly that the enzyme from Aerobacter aerogenes (now Klebsiella aerogenes) is FADindependent. It now seems apparent that the FAD-dependent enzyme produces 2-acetolactate for anabolic branched-chain amino-acid biosynthesis, while the FAD-independent form supplies the precursor for catabolic butanediol formation. Consistent with this distinction is the observation that the FAD-dependent enzyme can also combine pyruvate with 2-ketobutyrate to give 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate, the precursor of isoleucine, while the FAD-independent form is speci®c for 2-acetolactate synthesis. A further difference between the two forms is that the anabolic enzyme contains both catalytic and regulatory subunits (Squires et al., 1983; Pang & Duggleby, 1999; Lee & Duggleby, 2001) , while the catabolic form lacks a regulatory subunit. The regulatory subunit confers upon the anabolic enzyme sensitivity to feedback regulation by branched-chain amino acids (Vyazmensky et al., 1996; Pang & Duggleby, 1999; Lee & Duggleby, 2001) . To reinforce the distinction between the two types of enzyme, it has been proposed (Gollop et al., 1989) that the name ALS is reserved for the catabolic FADindependent enzyme, while AHAS refers to the anabolic enzyme that requires FAD. Notwithstanding the different cofactor requirements, subunit structure, sensitivity to inhibition by branched-chain amino acids and substrate speci®city of ALS and AHAS, the two proteins are clearly related and show substantial sequence similarities.
With burgeoning genomic databases and increasing ease of gene synthesis, metabolic engineers can now readily mine nature's rich collection of enzymes. However, finding a sequence with specific desired properties can be difficult, particularly when only a few members of a protein family have been characterized and a detailed understanding of the structure-function relationship is lacking. The ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI, EC 1.1.1.86, also known as acetohydroxyacid isomeroreductase (AHAIR)) enzymes have attracted much interest for production of amino acids and biofuels (Atsumi et al., 2008a; Bastian et al., 2011; Brinkmann-Chen et al., 2013; Hasegawa et al., 2012; Liu et al., 2010) . These oxidoreductases catalyze the second step in the branched chain amino-acid (BCAA) biosynthesis pathway (Chunduru et al., 1989) , conversion of (S)-2-acetolactate (S2AL) to (R)-2,3-dihydroxyisovalerate (RDHIV) via a methyl shift coupled to a reduction with concomitant oxidation of a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide cofactor.
With the utilization of the isoleucine production pathway in the formation of 2MB, there is a lot of previous work to draw upon on the overproduction of isoleucine in various organisms. It has been shown that overexpression of ilvD is important to prevent the buildup of 2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate (Hashiguchi et al. 1999) , the immediate precursor to KMV. For the condensation of 2KB and pyruvate, there are multiple AHAS enzymes to consider, three in E. coli alone, but each has slightly different properties making it more conducive for either valine or isoleucine production, of which we of course prefer the latter. Of the three isozymes found in E. coli, AHAS II encoded by ilvGM would likely be the best for isoleucine production were it not for a frameshift mutation rendering it inactive in K-12-derived strains (Favre et al. 1976) . Nonetheless, enzyme kinetic data show that AHAS II from E. coli and several other enteric bacteria provides a greater ratio of 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutryate to 2-acetolactate formation than the other AHAS isozymes (Barak et al. 1987; Gollop et al. 1990) , suggesting that AHAS II should be the best isozyme for isoleucine production. In research on Corynebacterium glutamicum, it was shown that a lysineproducing strain could be converted to isoleucine production with the overexpression of only three key genes: a feedback resistant hom (equivalent to thrA in E. coli), thrB, and feedback resistant ilvA (Morbach et al. 1996) . Overexpressing the first gene, thrA, draws carbon flux away KIV 2-Methyl-1-Butanol Fig. 1 Pathway for 2-methyl-1-butanol synthesis and important side products. Genes in bold are overexpressed in our system while underlined genes are knocked out. PEP phosphoenolpyruvate, KIV keto-isovalerate, OAA oxaloacetic acid, αKG α-keto-glutarate, 2KB 2-ketobutyrate, AHB 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate, KMV 2-keto-3-methylvalerate from lysine production (Fig. 1) , while overexpression of thrB draws carbon flux away from methionine. The third gene, ilvA, allows for the deamination of threonine to 2KB, thus feeding the AHAS enzymatic reaction.
RATIONALE ::: The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing, but the early diagnosis of T2DM in high risk populations remains challenging using only fasting blood glucose (FBG) or hemoglobin A1c measurements. It is, therefore, important to search for integrated biomarker for early diagnosis by determining metabolites associated with the progressopm of the disease. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: We recruited 149 participants (51 T2DM patients, 50 individuals with impaired fasting glucose (IFG) and 48 normal glucose tolerance subjects). Their serum samples were analyzed based on a metabolomics approach using UHPLC/Q-Orbitrap HRMS. The changes in metabolites were profiled and evaluated using univariate and multivariate analysis. Furthermore, a biomarker model was established and the potential biomarkers were evaluated using binary logistic regression analysis and receiver operating characteristic analysis with AUC (area under the curve). Pathway analysis of differential metabolites was performed to reveal the important biological information. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Thirty-eight differential metabolites were identified as significantly associated with T2DM patients and 23 differential metabolites with IFG individuals, mainly amino acids, carnitines, and phospholipids. By evaluating 17 potential biomarkers, we defined a novel integrated biomarker consisting of 2-acetolactate, 2-hydroxy-2,4-pentadienoate, L-arabinose and L-glutamine. The AUCs of the integrated biomarker with IFG and T2DM patients were 0.874 and 0.994, respectively, which showed a superior diagnostic performance. The levels of 2-acetolactate and 2-hydroxy-2,4-pentadienoate were strongly positively correlated with FBG, while L-glutamine and L-arabinose were strongly negatively associated with FBG. After pathway analysis, it was suggested that the majority of the influenced metabolic pathways associated with diabetes referred to amino acid metabolism. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The integrated biomarker could diagnose IFG and T2DM with a superior diagnostic performance. This finding provides support for novel biomarkers in the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS, EC 2.2.1.6) also known as acetolactate synthase is the first enzyme in the branched-chain amino acid (valine, leucine and isoleucine) biosynthesis pathway. Its function is to convert two molecules of pyruvate into (S)-2-acetolactate, or to convert one molecule of pyruvate and one molecule of 2-ketobutyrate into (S)-2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate. This activity is dependent on the presence of three cofactors, that is, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), and magnesium ion (Mg 2+ ) [1] . AHAS is the target of five classes of commercial herbicides, including the sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, pyrimidinyl-benzoates, triazolopyrimidines, and sulfonylamino-cabonyl-triazolinones (Fig. 1) . These Abbreviations AHAS, acetohydroxyacid synthase; At, Arabidopsis thaliana; CHES, 2-(N-cyclohexylamino)ethanesulfonic acid; EcGCL, Escherichia coli glyoxylate carboligase; FAD, flavin adenine dinucleotide; HE, hydroxyethyl; LpPOX, Lactobacillus plantarum pyruvate oxidase; POX, pyruvate oxidase; rmsd, root mean square deviation; Sc, Saccharomyces cerevisiae; ThDP, thiamine diphosphate.
Acetohydroxy acid reductoisomerase (EC 1.1.1.86, AHAR) was purified to a high degree from green shoots of wheat (Triticum aestivum L. cv. Vulcan). The enzyme was localised in the chloroplasts, and activity was at a maximum approximately 4 d after germination. The subunit molecular mass of wheat AHAR was 57 kD and activity of the native enzyme had an elution volume from size exclusion columns that corresponded to a molecular mass of 47 kD. The enzyme did not require the addition of Mg 2+ ions to reaction mixtures for activity. The Km values for (R,S)-2-acetolactate and (R,S)-2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate were 91 and 9 mM, respectively, and the corresponding maximum velocities were 430 and 451 mU mg –1 protein. The Km for NADPH was approximately 10 mM when either of the acetohydroxy acids was the other substrate. Preparation of the acetohydroxy acid substrates by hydrolysis of the parent esters in strong base led to the formation of inhibitory by-products. Racemisation of the acetohydroxy acids was detected in assay mixtures.
During sampling and determination of diacetyl, 2-acetohydroxy acids are easily converted to vicinal diketones. A simple procedure for gas chromatographic determination of diacetyl, 2-acetolactate, acetoin and the homologous compounds is given. By careful sampling, less than 0·01 ppm of diacetyl was detected during the main fermentation in one brewery, whereas another strain of brewer's yeast yielded a maximum of 1·7 ppm of diacetyl. When samples of fermenting liquids are exposed to air at 60°C, complete conversion of 2-acetohydroxy acids takes place in less than one hour. The possibility that part of 2-acetolactate may be converted to acetoin, however, cannot be excluded. In finished beer 2-acetolactate levels of 0·2–0·5 ppm were observed. During the main fermentation the values ranged from 0·5–2·5 ppm.
Addition of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) or an inhibitor of the BCAA biochemical pathways during fermentation of milk with a lac(-) mutant of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus and Streptococcus thermophilus strongly influenced the formation of two aroma-impact compounds, 2,3-butanedione and 2,3-pentanedione, as well as their direct precursors 2-acetolactate and 2-acetohydroxybutyrate. This suggests a connection between vicinal diketone formation and BCAA biosynthesis in yogurt bacteria. A recently developed static-and-trapped headspace technique combined with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry demonstrated incorporation of (13)C from [U-(13)C(6)]-D-glucose and [U-(13)C(4)]-L-threonine into both vicinal diketones. For 2,3-butanedione, glucose is the major precursor via pyruvate and activated acetaldehyde. For 2, 3-pentanedione, L-threonine is a precursor via 2-ketobutyrate, but glucose is the major contributor via activated acetaldehyde and, possibly, also via 2-ketobutyrate, which is a degradation product of 3-methylaspartate, an intermediate in glutamate synthesis.
Acetolactate synthase (ALS, EC 4, 1.3.18; also referred to as acetohydroxy acid synthase) is an enzyme catalyzing the common step in the biosynthetic pathways of valine, leucine, and isoleucine in plants and microorganisms. The enzyme catalyzes two parallel reactions, the condensation of two molecules of pyruvate to 2-acetolactate in the first step of biosynthesis of valine and leucine, and the condensation of pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate to 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate in the second step of isoleucine biosynthesis. 1 ALS requires three cofactors for its catalytic activity, thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP), flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and a divalent metal ion, Mg 2+ or Mn
Acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase catalyses a two-step reaction, an alkyl migration and a NADPH-dependent reduction, in the assembly of the carbon skeletons of branched-chain amino acids. Detailed investigations of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase aimed at elucidating the biosynthetic pathway of branched-chain amino acids and at designing new inhibitors of the enzyme having herbicidal potency have so far been conducted with the enzymes isolated from bacteria. To gain more information on a plant system, the gene encoding the mature acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) leaf chloroplasts has been used to transform Escherichia coli cells and to overexpress the enzyme. A rapid protocol is described that allows the preparation of large quantities of pure spinach chloroplast acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. Kinetic and structural properties of the plant enzyme expressed in Escherichia coli are compared with those reported in our previous studies on the native enzymes purified from spinach chloroplasts and with those reported for the corresponding enzymes isolated from Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium. Both the plant and the bacterial enzymes obey an ordered mechanism in which NADPH binds first, followed by substrate (either 2-acetolactate or 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate). Inhibition studies employing an inactive substrate analogue, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-oxopentanoate, showed, however, that the binding of 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-oxopentanoate and NADPH occurs randomly, suggestive of some flexibility of the plant enzyme active site. The observed preference of the enzyme for 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate over 2-acetolactate is discussed with regard to the contribution of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase activity in the partitioning between isoleucine and valine biosyntheses. Moreover, the kinetic properties of the chloroplast enzyme support the notion that biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids in plants is controlled by light. As judged by analytical-ultracentrifugation and gel-filtration analyses the overexpressed plant enzyme is a dimer of identical subunits.
Acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase catalyses a two-step reaction, an alkyl migration and a NADPH-dependent reduction, in the assembly of the carbon skeletons of branched-chain amino acids. Detailed investigations of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase aimed at elucidating the biosynthetic pathway of branched-chain amino acids and at designing new inhibitors of the enzyme having herbicidal potency have so far been conducted with the enzymes isolated from bacteria. To gain more information on a plant system, the gene encoding the mature acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) leaf chloroplasts has been used to transform Escherichia coli cells and to overexpress the enzyme. A rapid protocol is described that allows the preparation of large quantities of pure spinach chloroplast acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase. Kinetic and structural properties of the plant enzyme expressed in Escherichia coli are compared with those reported in our previous studies on the native enzymes purified from spinach chloroplasts and with those reported for the corresponding enzymes isolated from Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium. Both the plant and the bacterial enzymes obey an ordered mechanism in which NADPH binds first, followed by substrate (either 2-acetolactate or 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate). Inhibition studies employing an inactive substrate analogue, 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-oxopentanoate, showed, however, that the binding of 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-3-oxopentanoate and NADPH occurs randomly, suggestive of some flexibility of the plant enzyme active site. The observed preference of the enzyme for 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate over 2-acetolactate is discussed with regard to the contribution of acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase activity in the partitioning between isoleucine and valine biosyntheses. Moreover, the kinetic properties of the chloroplast enzyme support the notion that biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids in plants is controlled by light. As judged by analytical-ultracentrifugation and gel-filtration analyses the overexpressed plant enzyme is a dimer of identical subunits.
Metalloproteins account for at least half of all known proteins. Metal ions often facilitate chemical that are energetically and/or kinetically challenging. Metal ion-dependent proteins are responsible for a myriad of essential biological functions, including respiration, biosynthesis of essential amino acids, nitrogen fixation, oxygen transport, photosynthesis and metabolisms (e.g. glycolysis and citric acid cycle). Not surprisingly, a growing number of disorders (e.g. various cancers, phenylketonuria, Wilson’s disease) are associated with mutations in metalloenzymes. A general introduction of the importance of metals in biology is presented in chapter 1. This thesis is aimed at obtaining a greater understanding of the structure and function of three metalloenzymes, ketol acid reductoisomerase (KARI), purple acid phosphatase (PAP) and metallo β lactamase (MβL). Chapter 2 examines the structure and dynamics of plant KARI. KARI is an enzyme in the branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) biosynthesis pathway. KARI is a binuclear Mg2+ enzyme that catalyses the conversion of 2-acetolactate (AL) into (2R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-isovalerate or 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate into (2R, 3R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate in the presence of NADPH. To date, the only reported structures for a plant KARI are those of the spinach enzyme-Mn2+-(phospho) ADP ribose-(2R,3R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate complex and the spinach KARI-Mg2+-NADPH-N-hydroxy-N-isopropyloxamate complex, where N-hydroxy-N-isopropyloxamate (IpOHA) is a predicted transition-state analog. These studies demonstrate that the enzyme is consisted of two domains, N- domain and C- domain, with the active site at the interface of these domains. In this chapter, the structures of the rice KARI-Mg2+ and rice KARI-Mg2+-NADPH complexes were determined to 1.55 and 2.8 A resolutions, respectively. Comparisons of all the available plant KARI structures have revealed several major differences. Firstly, the N-domain is rotated up to 15o relative to the C-domain, expanding the active site by up to 4 A. Secondly, an α-helix in the C-domain that includes residues V510-T519 and forms part of the active site moves by ~ 3.9 A upon binding of NADPH. Thirdly, the 15 C-terminal amino acid residues in the rice KARI-Mg2+ complex are disordered. In the rice KARI-Mg2+-NADPH complex and spinach KARI structures, many of the 15 residues bind to NADPH and the N-domain and cover the active site. Fourthly, the location of the metal ions within the active site can vary by up to 2.7 A. The new structures have thus, led to the proposal of an induced-fit mechanism. In this proposed induced-fit mechanism, (i) substrate enters the active site, (ii) active site is closed during catalysis, and (iii) the opening of active site facilitates product release. PAP is also a binuclear metalloenzyme and is capable of utilizing a heterovalent active site to hydrolyse a broad range of phosphomonoester substrates. Chapter 3 examines the catalytic mechanism of PAP based on several new crystal structures. The red kidney bean PAP structure in complex in sulphate was determined to 2.4 A. This sulphate-bound structure provides insight into the pre-catalytic phase of its reaction cycle. This stucture demonstrates the significance of an extensive hydrogen-bonding network in the second coordination in initial substrate binding and orientation prior to hydrolysis. Most importantly, the two metal ions, Fe3+ and Zn2+, are five-coordinate in this structure, with only one nucleophilic μ-hydroxide present in the metal-bridging position. In combination with kinetic, crystallographic and spectroscopic data, all PAP structures form the proposal of a comprehensive eight-step model for the catalytic mechanism of purple acid phosphatases in general. To date, no reliable method for producing recombinant PAP at levels suitable for structural biology have been reported. Natural sources are the only way so far to obtaining PAP in a large quantity. Attempts to produce active and recombinant PAP from Mycobacterium marinum using bacterial are found in chapter 4. In brief, in combination with Nus fusion tag, Rosetta (DE3) strain and lower temperature (e.g. 25oC), expression of soluble and mycobacterial PAP becomes possible. However, this soluble protein is non-functional and thus, switching into other expression system (e.g.algal sytem) is the only approach to obtain soluble and functional protein. In algal expression system, human PAP was attempted. Preliminary results indicate that some PAP activity was observed when expressed in algal system. Chapter 5 focuses on the investigation of metallo β lactamase (MβL) from Klebsiella pneumoniae (Kp-MβL). This enzyme requires one or two Zn2+ ions for catalysis. Kinetic properties of Kp-MβL for the hydrolysis of various β-lactam substrates (e.g. benzyl-penicillin, cefoxitin, imipenem and meropenem) were investigated and the role of the metal ions in catalysis was also examined. Kinetic data demonstrate that Klebsiella pneumoniae MβL can degrade a broad spectrum of β-lactam antibiotics, with a high preference for cephems and carbapenems. Kinetic data from pH dependence studies has revealed that catalysis of benzyl-penicillin and meropenem is preferred at acidic pH. The kcat vs pH profile demonstrates that catalysis is enhanced by protonation, thus it is likely that the relevant group is responsible for the donation of a proton to the product or leaving group. In this case, a doubly Lewis activated, bridging hydroxide molecule has been speculated. A single protonation event (pKa ~7) is also observed in kcat/Km vs pH profile. Since benzyl-penicillin does not have an acidic moiety in this pH range, this event is likely to be associated with the free enzyme. His 79 and 139 have been speculated to enhance substrate binding. In contrast, catalysis of both cefoxitin and imipenem is favoured at alkaline pH, leading to the proposal that a terminally bound water is likely to form a nucleophile. A bell-shaped pH profile for kcat/Km is observed for cefoxitin and imipenem substrates. pKa of ~ 9-9.5 is likely to be associated with Lys161, which enhances substrate binding. In Chapter 6, a novel MβL from Serratia proteamaculans (Spr-MβL) is investigated. This chapter includes expression, purification and preliminary characterization of this MβL using steady-state kinetics. Expression of this enzyme in Rosetta (DE3) plysS E. coli strain yields only a small amount of soluble enzyme (1 mg/ 6 L culture). To improve the amount of soluble protein, Spr-MβL was subjected to several rounds of in vitro evolution. About two-fold gain in solubility was achieved by this method along with a five-fold increase in β-lactamase activity. Further rounds of directed evolution are now planned. The kinetic behaviour for Spr-MβL-catalysed the hydrolysis of three β-lactam substrates, penicillin, cefoxitin and imipenem were also studied. Kinetic data suggest that a water molecule bridging the two Zn2+ ions is the likely nucleophile in the reaction with penicillin while the reaction-initiating nucleophile is likely to be a terminally bound hydroxide in the reaction with cephalothin and imipenem (Chapter 6). In summary, this project has led to a better understanding of the structures of KARI and PAP prior to catalysis. This project has also aided in the understanding of catalytic mechanism of MβLs and the role the metal ions play. The knowledge gained will facilitate the development of new chemotherapeutics and herbicides.
Abstract On account of the ever increasing resistance of M.tuberculosis strains to orthodox therapy regimens, the task of combating tuberculosis becomes even more challenging. Therefore, there arises a need to isolate new drug targets and subsequently design specific inhibitors for the same. In bacteria, algae, plants and fungi, the synthesis of Branched Chain Amino Acids (BCAAs) is catalyzed by Acetohydroxyacid Synthases (AHAS) group of enzymes. Bacterial AHAS (EC 2.2.1.6) catalyzes the biosynthesis of isoleucine, leucine and valine by utilizing cofactors like Thiamin Diphosphate (ThDP), Flavin Adenine Dinucleotide (FAD) and a divalent metal cation (Usually Mg(2+)). The anabolic form of the enzyme which is presently under discussion consists of two subunits out of which one is catalytic while the other is regulatory in nature. The product of this enzyme catalyzed reaction is either 2-acetolactate or 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate obtained from self-condensation of pyruvate or condensation of puruvate and 2-ketobutyrate, respectively. These are further converted to the BCAAs by a series of other enzymes. The step catalyzed by AHAS is the first in the entire cascade and hence can be selectively targeted for the inhibition of this pathway. M.tuberculosis AHAS, which is encoded by the ilvB and ilvN operons is structurally related to E.coli AHAS and has a similar function. Therefore, specific drugs belonging to the classes of sulfonylureas, imidazolinones and benzoyl esters can be used as inhibitors of M.tuberculosis AHAS which would consequently deplete the BCAA supply to the bacteria. Thus, efficient bacteriostasis can be achieved.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) and acetolactate synthase (ALS) are thiamine diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzymes that catalyze the decarboxylation of pyruvate to give a cofactor-bound hydroxyethyl group, which is transferred to a second molecule of pyruvate to give 2-acetolactate. AHAS is found in plants, fungi, and bacteria, is involved in the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids, and contains non-catalytic FAD. ALS is found only in some bacteria, is a catabolic enzyme required for the butanediol fermentation, and does not contain FAD. Here we report the 2.3-A crystal structure of Klebsiella pneumoniae ALS. The overall structure is similar to AHAS except for a groove that accommodates FAD in AHAS, which is filled with amino acid side chains in ALS. The ThDP cofactor has an unusual conformation that is unprecedented among the 26 known three-dimensional structures of nine ThDP-dependent enzymes, including AHAS. This conformation suggests a novel mechanism for ALS. A second structure, at 2.0 A, is described in which the enzyme is trapped halfway through the catalytic cycle so that it contains the hydroxyethyl intermediate bound to ThDP. The cofactor has a tricyclic structure that has not been observed previously in any ThDP-dependent enzyme, although similar structures are well known for free thiamine. This structure is consistent with our proposed mechanism and probably results from an intramolecular proton transfer within a tricyclic carbanion that is the true reaction intermediate. Modeling of the second molecule of pyruvate into the active site of the enzyme with the bound intermediate is consistent with the stereochemistry and specificity of ALS.
The volatile compounds released by Corynebacterium glutamicum were collected by use of the CLSA technique (closed-loop stripping apparatus) and analysed by GC-MS. The headspace extracts contained several acyloins and pyrazines that were identified by their synthesis or comparison to commercial standards. Feeding experiments with [2H7]acetoin resulted in the incorporation of labelling into trimethylpyrazine and tetramethylpyrazine. Several deletion mutants targeting genes of the primary metabolism were constructed to elucidate the biosynthetic pathway to pyrazines in detail. A deletion mutant of the ketol-acid reductoisomerase was not able to convert the acetoin precursor (S)-2-acetolactate into the pathway intermediate (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylbutanoate to the branched amino acids. This mutant requires valine, leucine, and isoleucine for growth and produces significantly higher amounts and more different compounds of the acyloin and pyrazine classes. Gene deletion of the acetolactate synthase (AS) resulted in a mutant that is not able to convert pyruvate into (S)-2-acetolactate. This mutant also requires branched amino acids and produces only very small amounts of pyrazines likely from valine via the valine biosynthetic pathway operating in reverse order. A ΔASΔKR double mutant was constructed that does not produce any pyrazines at all. These results open up a detailed biosynthetic model for the formation of alkylated pyrazines via acyloins.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) and acetolactate synthase (ALS) are thiamine diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzymes that catalyze the decarboxylation of pyruvate to give a cofactor-bound hydroxyethyl group, which is transferred to a second molecule of pyruvate to give 2-acetolactate. AHAS is found in plants, fungi, and bacteria, is involved in the biosynthesis of the branchedchain amino acids, and contains non-catalytic FAD. ALS is found only in some bacteria, is a catabolic enzyme required for the butanediol fermentation, and does not contain FAD. Here we report the 2.3-Å crystal structure of Klebsiella pneumoniae ALS. The overall structure is similar to AHAS except for a groove that accommodates FAD in AHAS, which is filled with amino acid side chains in ALS. The ThDP cofactor has an unusual conformation that is unprecedented among the 26 known three-dimensional structures of nine ThDP-dependent enzymes, including AHAS. This conformation suggests a novel mechanism for ALS. A second structure, at 2.0 Å, is described in which the enzyme is trapped halfway through the catalytic cycle so that it contains the hydroxyethyl intermediate bound to ThDP. The cofactor has a tricyclic structure that has not been observed previously in any ThDP-dependent enzyme, although similar structures are well known for free thiamine. This structure is consistent with our proposed mechanism and probably results from an intramolecular proton transfer within a tricyclic carbanion that is the true reaction intermediate. Modeling of the second molecule of pyruvate into the active site of the enzyme with the bound intermediate is consistent with the stereochemistry and specificity of ALS.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) is the first enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of the branched-chain amino acids. It catalyzes the conversion of two molecules of pyruvate into 2-acetolactate or one molecule of pyruvate and one molecule of 2-ketobutyrate into 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate. AHAS requires the cofactors thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), Mg(2+) and FAD for activity. The herbicides that target this enzyme are effective in protecting a broad range of crops from weed species. However, resistance in the field is now a serious problem worldwide. To address this, two new sulfonylureas, monosulfuron and monosulfuron ester, have been developed as commercial herbicides in China. These molecules differ from the traditional sulfonylureas in that the heterocyclic ring attached to the nitrogen atom of the sulfonylurea bridge is monosubstituted rather than disubstituted. The structures of these compounds in complex with the catalytic subunit of Arabidopsis thaliana AHAS have been determined to 3.0 and 2.8 A, respectively. In both complexes, these molecules are bound in the tunnel leading to the active site, such that the sole substituent of the heterocyclic ring is buried deepest and oriented towards the ThDP. Unlike the structures of Arabidopsis thaliana AHAS in complex with the classic disubstituted sulfonylureas, where ThDP is broken, this cofactor is intact and present most likely as the hydroxylethyl intermediate.
Binuclear Mg ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI), converting (S)-2-acetolactate to (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-isovalerate, is responsible for the second step of the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids in plants and microorganisms, thus acting as a key inhibition target without influences on mammals. Here, using density functional calculations and a chemical model, the KARI reaction is demonstrated to include the initial deprotonation of the substrate C₂-hydroxyl bridged by the two Mg, the alkyl migration from the C₂-alkoxide carbon to the C₃-carbonyl carbon, and the hydride transfer from a NAD(P)H cofactor to the C₂. A dead-end mechanism with a hydride transferred to the C₃-carbonyl has been ruled out. The nucleophilicity (migratory aptitude) of the migrated carbon and the negative charges adding to the di-Mg coordination sphere have significant effects on the steps of alkyl migration and hydride transfer, respectively. Other important mechanistic characteristics are also revealed. Inspired by the mechanism, an inhibitor (2-carboxylate-lactic acid) have been designed and predicted by the barrier analysis to be effective in inactivating KARI, probably enriching the antifungal and antibacterial library. Two types of slow substrate analogues (2-trihalomethyl acetolactic acids and 2-glutaryl lactic acid) were also found.
The acetohydroxyacid, 2-acetolactate is the precursor of the branched-chain amino acids valine and leucine. It is formed in a reaction catalyzed by acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; EC 4.1.3.18), 1, 2 in which pyruvate is decarboxylated and condensed with a second molecule of pyruvate ( Figure 1 ). Isoleucine is formed in a pathway that parallels that of valine biosynthesis, except that AHAS uses pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate to form 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate.
UNLABELLED ::: Acetoin (3-hydroxy-2-butanone) formation in vinegar microbiota is crucial for the flavor quality of Zhenjiang aromatic vinegar, a traditional vinegar produced from cereals. However, the specific microorganisms responsible for acetoin formation in this centuries-long repeated batch fermentation have not yet been clearly identified. Here, the microbial distribution discrepancy in the diacetyl/acetoin metabolic pathway of vinegar microbiota was revealed at the species level by a combination of metagenomic sequencing and clone library analysis. The results showed that Acetobacter pasteurianus and 4 Lactobacillus species (Lactobacillus buchneri, Lactobacillus reuteri, Lactobacillus fermentum, and Lactobacillus brevis) might be functional producers of acetoin from 2-acetolactate in vinegar microbiota. Furthermore, A. pasteurianus G3-2, L. brevis 4-22, L. fermentum M10-3, and L. buchneri F2-5 were isolated from vinegar microbiota by a culture-dependent method. The acetoin concentrations in two cocultures (L. brevis 4-22 plus A. pasteurianus G3-2 and L. fermentum M10-3 plus A. pasteurianus G3-2) were obviously higher than those in monocultures of lactic acid bacteria (LAB), while L. buchneri F2-5 did not produce more acetoin when coinoculated with A. pasteurianus G3-2. Last, the acetoin-producing function of vinegar microbiota was regulated in situ via augmentation with functional species in vinegar Pei After 72 h of fermentation, augmentation with A. pasteurianus G3-2 plus L. brevis 4-22, L. fermentum M10-3, or L. buchneri F2-5 significantly increased the acetoin content in vinegar Pei compared with the control group. This study provides a perspective on elucidating and manipulating different metabolic roles of microbes during flavor formation in vinegar microbiota. ::: ::: ::: IMPORTANCE ::: Acetoin (3-hydroxy-2-butanone) formation in vinegar microbiota is crucial for the flavor quality of Zhenjiang aromatic vinegar, a traditional vinegar produced from cereals. Thus, it is of interest to understand which microbes are driving the formation of acetoin to elucidate the microbial distribution discrepancy in the acetoin metabolic pathway and to regulate the metabolic function of functional microbial groups in vinegar microbiota. Our study provides a perspective on elucidating and manipulating different metabolic roles of microbes during flavor formation in vinegar microbiota.
Acetolactate synthase (ALS, EC 4.1.3.18 : also referred to as acetohydroxyacid synthase) catalyzes the first common step of a bifurcated biosynthetic pathway to the branched-chain amino acids, valine, leucine, and isoleucine in bacteria, yeast, and higher plants. ALS catalyzes either the condensation of 2-acetolactate from two molecules of pyruvate in the first step of the valine and leucine synthetic pathway, or the formation of 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate as the second step of isoleucine biosynthesis. ALS is a key controlling point for the levels of the branched-chain amino acids in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In bacteria, this control involves the feedback inhibition of the enzyme activity by the branched-chain amino acids or repression of enzyme synthesis or both (Chipman et al., 1988) . In plants, however, the only known mechanism of the regulation of ALS is through a feedback inhibition by valine, leucine, and isoleucine (Miflin, 1971) .
The biosynthetic pathway for the branched-chain amino acids is present in plants, fungi and bacteria, but not in animals, making it an attractive target for herbicidal and antimicrobial drug discovery. Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) is the second enzyme in this pathway, converting in a Mg2+ - and NADPH-dependent reaction either 2-acetolactate or 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate to their corresponding 2,3-dihydroxy-3-alkylbutyrate products. Here, we have determined the crystal structure of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mt) KARI, a class I KARI, with two magnesium ions bound in the active site. X-ray data were obtained to 1.0 angstrom resolution and the final model has an R-free of 0.163. The structure shows that the active site is solvent-accessible with the two metal ions separated by 4.7 angstrom. A comparison of this structure with that of Mg(-)(2+)free Pseudomonas aeruginosa KARI suggests that upon magnesium binding no movement of the N domain relative to the C domain occurs. However, upon formation of the Michaelis complex, as illustrated in the structure of Slackia exigua KARI in complex with NADH.Mg2+. N-hydroxy-N-isopropyloxamate (IpOHA, a transition state analog), domain movements and reduction of the metal-metal distance to 3.5 angstrom are observed. This inherent flexibility therefore appears to be critical for initiation of the KARI catalyzed reaction. This study provides new insights into the complex structural rearrangements required for activity of KARIs, particularly those belonging to class I, and provides the framework for the rational design of Mt KARI inhibitors that can be tested as novel antituberculosis agents.
Enzyme acetolactate synthase (ALS) catalyzes synthesis of the branched-chain amino acids valine and leucine through production of 2-acetolactate from two molecules of pyruvate, and isoleucine by production of 2-acetohydroxybutyrate from pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate.
A two-step strategy involving DEAE-cellulose and POROS PI anion exchange chromatography has been developed for rapid purification of acetolactate decarboxylase (ALD) from Leuconostoc lactis NCW1. This results in 5333-fold purification with a yield of 30%. Purified ALD is a dimer of 49-kDa subunits, has a pH optimum of 6.0, a pI of 4.2 and its activity is independent of metals or branched chain amino acids. At the optimum pH, the K(m) for 2-acetolactate (ALA) was found to be 1.3 mM and the turnover number was 4000 min(-1). N-terminal sequence comparison with other ALDs showed little sequence conservation in this region. Purified ALD does not catalyse direct production of diacetyl from ALA, unlike the crude extract.
Results are given for the production of diacetyl, 2,3-pentandione- I-acetolactate, 2-acetohydroxy butyrate, acetoin and 3-hydroxy-2-pentanone for 13 yeasts belonging to the genus Saccharomyces. The data presented indicate that in general the yeasts do not produce significant amounts of vicinal diketones during unstirred laboratory fermentations. The observed maximum levels of diacetyl ranged from 0·02–0·32 ppm averaging 0·09 ppm (0·07 ppm if S. carlsbergensis (strain H) is omitted). During active fermentation all the yeasts tested produced 2-acetohydroxy acids. The 2-acetohydroxy acids and the 3-hydroxy-2-ketones are determined gas chromatographically by stepwise conversion of the four compounds to diacetyl and 2,3-pentandione. The maximum amounts of 2-acetolactate produced by the yeasts tested averaged 0·7 ppm, ranging from 0·08–1·65 ppm.
A pathway toward isobutanol production previously constructed in Escherichia coli involves 2-ketoacid decarboxylase (Kdc) from Lactococcus lactis that decarboxylates 2-ketoisovalerate (KIV) to isobutyraldehyde. Here, we showed that a strain lacking Kdc is still capable of producing isobutanol. We found that acetolactate synthase from Bacillus subtilis (AlsS), which originally catalyzes the condensation of two molecules of pyruvate to form 2-acetolactate, is able to catalyze the decarboxylation of KIV like Kdc both in vivo and in vitro. Mutational studies revealed that the replacement of Q487 with amino acids with small side chains (Ala, Ser, and Gly) diminished only the decarboxylase activity but maintained the synthase activity.
AHAS catalyzes the most important step in the 2-ketoisovalerate biosynthesis pathway since the reactions it catalyzes are irreversible and are the first committed steps towards the synthesis of all three BCAAs (Fig. 1) . AHAS is capable of synthesizing 2-acetolactate, a precursor of valine and leucine from two molecules of pyruvate, in addition to 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate, a precursor of isoleucine from pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate. A bifunctional AHAS catalyzes both of the above-mentioned reactions in most organisms, whereas in a few organisms, two separate enzymes catalyze these reactions (Chipman et al. 1998; McCourt and Duggleby 2006) . R. eutropha AHAS enzyme consists of two subunits, IlvB and IlvH, encoded by genes in the operon ilvBHC (locus tags H16_A1035 and H16_A1036). To date, there is no definitive structural information on AHAS, although individual subunits have been crystallized separately from Escherichia coli (Chipman et al. 1998; Kaplun et al. 2006; McCourt and Duggleby 2006; Park and Lee 2010; Petkowski et al. 2007 ). Studies of AHAS from E. coli, Corynebacterium glutamicum, B. subtilis, Lactococcus lactis, and others have led to the hypothesis that catalysis occurs at the IlvB homodimer interface and IlvH is required for catalysis, but serves a regulatory role. The expression of ilvBH is controlled by the amount of charged-tRNA BCAAs available in the cell. High levels of charged-tRNA BCAAs repress the transcription of ilvBH. Furthermore, AHAS activity is controlled allosterically at the activity level by its regulatory subunit IlvH, through binding of BCAA at the homodimer interface (Barak and Chipman 2012; Chipman et al. 1998; Eggeling et al. 1987; Eoyang and Silverman 1986; McCourt and Duggleby 2006; Vinogradov et al. 2006 ).
E. coli has three extensively studied AHAS isozymes, each with a different substrate specificity and regulation mechanism. The sequence of E. coli AHAS isozyme II differs from the other two AHASs, and its regulatory subunit is insensitive to direct feedback inhibition by valine (Eoyang and Silverman 1986; Park and Lee 2010; Steinmetz et al., 2010; Vinogradov et al. 2006; Vyazmensky et al. 2009; Vyazmensky et al. 1996) . R. eutropha AHAS shares the greatest sequence similarity with E. coli AHAS isozyme I (52 %); therefore, it could also be subject to allosteric feedback inhibition by the pathway intermediates 2,3-dihydroxy-isovalerate and 2-ketoisovalerate in addition to the end products valine, leucine, and isoleucine. Thus, understanding and minimizing allosteric inhibition by products and intermediates are essential to optimize the production of 2-ketoisovalerate in R. eutropha. In the case of R. eutropha, AHAS catalyzes both the formation of 2-acetolactate and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate (Fig. 1) . The substrate selectivity ratio (R) towards 2-ketobutyrate as the second substrate over pyruvate can be calculated by the following equation:
where AHB, 2 KB, AL, and P represent 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate, 2-ketobutyrate, 2-acetolactate, and pyruvate, respectively (Barak et al. 1987; Gollop et al. 1990 ).
There is a competition between pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate for an active 2-hydroxyethyl-TPP carbanion/enamine intermediate formed irreversibly after the addition and decarboxylation of the first pyruvate moiety (Bar-Ilan et al. 2001; Chipman et al. 2005; Engel et al. 2004; Steinmetz et al. 2010; Tittmann et al. 2004; Vyazmensky et al. 2011) . R values for E. coli AHAS isozymes I, II, and III are 1, 185, and 53, respectively. These ratios, besides that of isozyme I, strongly favor the formation of 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate over 2-acetolactate (Barak et al. 1987) . Acetohydroxyacid isomeroreductase (AHAIR), encoded by ilvC (locus tags H16_A1037) within the operon ilvBHC in R. eutropha, catalyzes the formation of 2,3-dihydroxyisovalerate from 2-acetolactate, in addition to the formation of 2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate from 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate. Unlike AHAS, AHAIR has similar substrate preference towards both substrates. AHAIR requires NADPH and a divalent metal ion, in most cases Mg 2+ , for catalysis. The metal cofactor is involved in the alkyl migration isomerization step, whereas NADPH is the electron donor for the reduction step. A unique feature of its reaction mechanism is that it simultaneously catalyzes both an isomerization and a reduction reaction. Mutations in active site residues that abolished the reductase activity also eliminated the isomerization reaction, suggesting that isomerization and reduction are coupled without any detectable intermediate (Chunduru et al. 1989; Harper et al. 1984; Schomburg and Stephan 1995) .
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) is the first enzyme in the biosynthesis pathway of the branched-chain amino acids, catalyzing the condensation of pyruvate with another molecule of pyruvate or with 2-ketobutyrate, to produce 2-acetolactate or 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, respectively. The catalytic subunit of the dimeric enzyme has thiamin diphosphate (ThDP), a divalent metal ion, flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and two molecules of oxygen (O-2(I) and O-2(II)) as cofactors. Here, crystal structures of Saccharomyces cerevisiae AHAS in complex with pyruvate provide novel insights into the mechanistic features of this enzyme including: i) The precise position taken by pyruvate molecules as they enter the active site (i.e. prior to catalysis occurring) with conformations suitable for the transfer of electrons to/from O-2(I) and FAD; ii) The formation of ternary donor-acceptor-O-2(I) complexes and iii) The location of O-2(II) relative to the substrate showing that it plays a critical role in the organization of substrate for catalysis. These structural data, accompanied by electron paramagnetic resonance evidence that a radical is produced during AHAS catalysis, lead to the proposal that FAD and O-2 are involved in an indirect one-electron redox cycle. In this mechanism, the spatial configurations of O-2 and FAD in the active site can allow electrons to be exchanged with the substrates and catalytic intermediates to satisfy and control the overall AHAS catalyzed reaction.
Diacetyl formation was linear with time and with protein concentration when a cell-free extract of Leuconostoc lactis NCW1 was added to a buffer system containing pyruvate, thiamine pyrophosphate and MgS4 (final concentrations 60 mM, 0.11 mM and 0.22 mM, respectively). No diacetyl was detected in the absence of pyruvate or cell-free extract and no increase in diacetyl formation was detected on the addition of acetyl-CoA. When 2-acetolactate (1.6 mM) was the substrate, autodecarboxylation to diacetyl and acetoin occurred under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. When cell-free extract was added, decarboxylation of 2-acetolactate to acetoin and diacetyl increased 4–6-fold, under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. When the cell-free extract was boiled, diacetyl formation from 2-acetolactate was reduced to the level of autodecarboxylation. The results suggest that diacetyl is formed enzymatically in the presence and absence of oxygen, as well as spontaneously, from 2-acetolactate.
branched-chain amino acid pathway | cofactor imbalance K etol-acid reductoisomerases (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) are a family of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-dependent oxidoreductases that catalyze an alkyl-migration followed by a ketol-acid reduction of (S)-2-acetolactate (S2AL) and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate to yield (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-isovalerate and (R)-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate, respectively (1), which are essential intermediates in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) (2, 3). The demand for these essential amino acids, used in the preparation of animal feed, human dietary supplements, and pharmaceuticals, is currently estimated to exceed 1,500 tons per year (4). In addition, the BCAA pathway has been engineered to produce fine chemicals and biofuels, including 1-butanol and isobutanol (5, 6). Under the anaerobic conditions preferred for large-scale fermentations, biosynthesis of BCAAs and other products that use this pathway is limited by the pathway's cofactor imbalance and reduced cellular production of NADPH (7, 8) . One approach to overcoming the cofactor imbalance is to engineer KARI to use NADH generated in glycolysis, thereby enabling anaerobic production of BCAA pathway products (7, 8) .
Acetohydroxyacid synthases (AHAS, EC 2.2.1.6) are divided into two classes based on their metabolic/physiological roles, substrate specificity and cofactor (FAD) requirements: anabolic and catabolic AHASs [4, 5] . The anabolic AHAS catalyzes the first common step in the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids (BCAA, valine, leucine, and isoleucine) as well as the precursors derived from the same biosynthetic pathway (e.g. coenzyme A and pantothenate). The enzyme is relatively prevalent in archaea, bacteria, fungi, algae, and plants, but is absent from animals [6] [7] [8] . It catalyzes two parallel reactions during which one molecule of pyruvate is decarboxylated, and the resulting "active aldehyde" is condensed with a second molecule of either pyruvate or 2-ketobutyrate to produce acetolactate (precursor of valine and leucine) and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate (precursor of isoleucine), respectively (Fig. 1) . The catabolic AHAS (also known as acetolactate synthase; ALS) has a single subunit with $ 60 kDa in size, and is involved in channeling the excess pyruvate to the less inhibitory product 2-acetolactate ( Fig. 1 ) which can be either decomposed to diacetyl (spontaneously) or be decarboxylated to acetoin by acetolactate decarboxylase [9] . This latter enzyme has only been described from certain bacterial species including Klebsiella, Bacillus species, and some lactic acid bacteria [5, 10] .
Acetohydroxyacid reductoisomerase was purified over 400-fold to a specific activity of 62 nkat.mg-1, with 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate as substrate, from the stroma of spinach leaf chloroplasts. The enzyme was not intrinsically membrane bound. The native enzyme was a tetramer with a subunit Mr of 59,000. The activity was optimum between pH 7.5 and 8.5. The apparent Km for 2-acetolactate was 25 microM and for 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate was 37 microM. The enzyme required Mg2+ and the Vmax. was attained at physiological Mg2+ concentrations. NADP+ competitively inhibited the reaction when NADPH was the varied substrate. The native enzyme eluted from Mono-Q ion-exchange resins as three distinct peaks of activity. This elution pattern was preserved when the peaks were combined, dialysed and re-chromatographed. Each form exhibited identical Mr of 59,000 after SDS/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE), whereas they were easily distinguishable from each other after PAGE under non-denaturing conditions. These results provide evidence for the existence of multiple forms of acetohydroxyacid reductoisomerase in chloroplasts isolated from spinach leaves.
Acetolactate synthase (ALS) is a thiamine diphosphate (ThDP)-dependent enzyme that catalyzes the decarboxylation of pyruvate and then condenses the hydroxyethyl moiety with another molecule of pyruvate to give 2-acetolactate (AL). AL is a key metabolic intermediate in various metabolic pathways of microorganisms. In addition, AL can be converted to acetoin, an important physiological metabolite that is excreted by many microorganisms. There are two types of ALSs reported in the literature, anabolic acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) and catabolic ALSs (cALS). The anabolic AHAS is primarily found in plants, fungi, and bacteria, is involved in the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), and contains flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), whereas the cALS is found only in some bacteria and is involved in the butanediol fermentation pathway. Both of the enzymes are ThDP-dependent and require a divalent metal ion for catalytic activity. Despite the similarities of the reactions catalyzed, the cALS can be distinguished from anabolic AHAS by a low optimal pH of about 6.0, FAD-independent functionality, a genetic location within the butanediol operon, and lack of a regulatory subunit. It is noteworthy that the structural and functional features of AHAS have been extensively studied, in contrast to those of cALS, for which only limited information is available. To date, the only crystal structure of cALS reported is from Klebsiella pneumonia, which revealed that the overall structure of K. pneumonia ALS is similar to that of AHAS except for the FAD binding region found in AHAS. The recent discovery of the crystal structures of various ThDP-dependent enzymes, including cALS, has greatly aided the understanding of the overall structural orientation of ThDP and its role in catalysis. As with the other ThDPdependent enzymes, ThDP is located in the active site of cALS with a unique V-conformation at the subunit-subunit interface, where the diphosphate moiety of ThDP is in contact with one subunit and the aminopyrimidine moiety is in contact with the other subunit. In all of the crystal structures of ThDP-dependent enzymes determined to date, with the exception of glyoxylate carbo-ligase (GCL), a glutamate residue has been found at hydrogen-bonding distance from the N1' atom of the aminopyrimidine ring of the bound ThDP and plays a key role in catalysis (Fig. 1). In addition to ThDP binding, the glutamate interaction with the N1' atom of the ThDP aminopyrimidine moiety is involved in activation of the cofactor for proton exchange in several ThDP-dependent enzymes and induces the formation ofe 1',4'-iminotautomer, which generates the highly reactive ylide required for catalysis. This glutamate residue was found to be highly conserved in almost all of the ThDP-dependent family of enzymes (Fig. 2). Subsequently, the crucial catalytic role of this glutamate residue was extensively studied by site-directed mutagenesis in a few ThDP-dependent enzymes, including AHAS and pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC). Clearly, it is also very important to investigate the extent to which this glutamate is essential in other ThDP-dependent enzymes. In this study we investigated the influence of this catalytically important glutamate residue (Glu-49) on both catalysis and cofactor binding in cALS of Enterococcus faecalis. We recently cloned, purified, and characterized the cALS of E. faecalis. Site-directed mutagenesis was carried
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) catalyses the formation of 2-acetolactate and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate as the first step in the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids valine, leucine and isoleucine. The enzyme is inhibited by a wide range of substituted sulfonylureas and imidazolinones and many of these compounds are used as commercial herbicides. Here, the crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the catalytic subunit of Arabidopsis thaliana AHAS in complex with the sulfonylurea herbicide chlorimuron ethyl are reported. This is the first report of the structure of any plant protein in complex with a commercial herbicide. Crystals diffract to 3.0 A resolution, have unit-cell parameters a = b = 179.92, c = 185.82 A and belong to space group P6(4)22. Preliminary analysis indicates that there is one monomer in the asymmetric unit and that these are arranged as pairs of dimers in the crystal. The dimers form a very open hexagonal lattice, with a high solvent content of 81%.
In the present study, as a proof of concept using PFM, we utilized an expression module regulated by LysR-type protein to improve the production of L-valine. The metabolic pathway for L-valine (and L-isoleucine) synthesis comprises several reactions catalyzed by the following enzymes: acetohydroxy acid synthase I (AHAS I) (IlvBN)/AHAS II (IlvGM)/AHAS III (IlvIH), isomeroreductase (IlvC), dihydroxyacid dehydratase (IlvD), and aminotransferase B (IlvE) (Fig 1) . IlvY-mediated inducible expression of the ilvC gene is well characterized [31] [32] [33] [34] . The ilvY and ilvC genes are structurally coupled in the E. coli chromosome and transcribed from divergently arranged promoters that partially overlap in their "upstream" regions (Fig 2) . Furthermore, 2-acetolactate (AL) and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutanoate (AHB), substrates for IlvC, are co-inducers of transcription activator IlvY, which enhances ilvC gene expression (Fig 2) . Thus, IlvC synthesis is activated in the presence of its own substrates.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) catalyses the formation of 2-acetolactate and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate as the ®rst step in the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids valine, leucine and isoleucine. The enzyme is inhibited by a wide range of substituted sulfonylureas and imidazolinones and many of these compounds are used as commercial herbicides. Here, the crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the catalytic subunit of Arabidopsis thaliana AHAS in complex with the sulfonylurea herbicide chlorimuron ethyl are reported. This is the ®rst report of the structure of any plant protein in complex with a commercial herbicide. Crystals diffract to 3.0 A Ê resolution, have unitcell parameters a = b = 179.92, c = 185.82 A Ê and belong to space group P6 4 22. Preliminary analysis indicates that there is one monomer in the asymmetric unit and that these are arranged as pairs of dimers in the crystal. The dimers form a very open hexagonal lattice, with a high solvent content of 81%.
AHAS (EC 2.2.1.6, formerly EC 4.1.3.18), also known as acetolactate synthase, catalyses the ®rst step in the biosynthesis of the branched-chain amino acids (reviewed by Duggleby & Pang, 2000) . The reaction involves the decarboxylation of pyruvate followed by condensation with a second molecule of pyruvate to give 2-acetolactate, the precursor of valine and leucine. The enzyme also catalyses a similar reaction in which the second substrate is 2-ketobutyrate, giving 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate, the precursor for isoleucine synthesis. AHAS is inhibited by several classes of commercial herbicide including sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines, sulfonylaminocarbonyltriazolinones and pyrimidinylthiobenzoates. These compounds are often selective for certain plants, with the selectivity arising from the differing abilities of various plants to convert the herbicides to non-toxic derivatives. Frequently, the inhibition of isolated AHAS is similar in sensitive and resistant species. However, an array of AHAS mutations have been reported that result in a herbicide-insensitive enzyme. In several cases, the same mutation has been described in plant and microbial enzymes, pointing to a similar structural organization of AHAS across diverse organisms. Nevertheless, there are also clear differences; for example, the plant enzyme is several orders of magnitude more sensitive to imidazolinones than is AHAS from E. coli and yeast.
Abstract Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) is an enzyme in the branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis pathway where it catalyzes the conversion of 2-acetolactate into (2 R )-2,3-dihydroxy-3-isovalerate or the conversion of 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate into (2 R ,3 R )-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate. KARI catalyzes two reactions—alkyl migration and reduction—and requires Mg 2+ and NADPH for activity. To date, the only reported structures for a plant KARI are those of the spinach enzyme–Mn 2+ –(phospho)ADP ribose–(2 R ,3 R )-2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate complex and the spinach KARI–Mg 2 + –NADPH– N -hydroxy- N -isopropyloxamate complex, where N -hydroxy- N -isopropyloxamate is a predicted transition-state analog. These studies demonstrated that the enzyme consists of two domains, N-domain and C-domain, with the active site at the interface of these domains. Here, we have determined the structures of the rice KARI–Mg 2+ and rice KARI–Mg 2 + –NADPH complexes to 1.55 A and 2.80 A resolutions, respectively. In comparing the structures of all the complexes, several differences are observed. Firstly, the N-domain is rotated up to 15° relative to the C-domain, expanding the active site by up to 4 A. Secondly, an α-helix in the C-domain that includes residues V510-T519 and forms part of the active site moves by ∼ 3.9 A upon binding of NADPH. Thirdly, the 15 C-terminal amino acid residues in the rice KARI–Mg 2+ complex are disordered. In the rice KARI–Mg 2 + –NADPH complex and the spinach KARI structures, many of the 15 residues bind to NADPH and the N-domain and cover the active site. Fourthly, the location of the metal ions within the active site can vary by up to 2.7 A. The new structures allow us to propose that an induced-fit mechanism operates to (i) allow substrate to enter the active site, (ii) close over the active site during catalysis, and (iii) open the active site to facilitate product release.
Abstract Haemin, Fe3+ and Cu2+ caused significant decarboxylation of 2-acetolactate (ALA) to diacetyl during steam distillation of milk at pH 6.5. In the absence of these compounds, maximum conversion (28%) of ALA to diacetyl occurred at pH 3.5. Addition of 1.5 m m CuSO4 at this pH increased the conversion to 100%. Based on this result, a new method for the determination of ALA was developed, in which interference from pre-formed acetoin was minimised. Comparison of this method with the previous method (Jordan and Cogan, Irish Journal of Agricultural and Food Research 34, 39–47, 1995), with which high concentrations of acetoin interfere, was excellent (R2=0.96). Breakdown of ALA to diacetyl in the absence of Cu at pH 0.5 and 6.5 were 0.8 and 2.5%, respectively, implying that samples for diacetyl analysis should be adjusted to pH 0.5 before distillation if ALA is also suspected to be present. In quarg (pH 4.5) held at 4°C, ALA was degraded at a rate of 6.9–16.9 μmol L-1 day-1 and from 32 to 50% of the degraded ALA was converted to diacetyl during extended storage.
The specific protonation of valine and leucine methyl groups in proteins is typically achieved by overexpressing proteins in M9/D2O medium supplemented with either labeled α-ketoisovalerate for the labeling of the four prochiral methyl groups or with 2-acetolactate for the stereospecific labeling of the valine and leucine side chains. However, when these labeling schemes are applied to large protein assemblies, significant overlap between the correlations of the valine and leucine methyl groups occurs, hampering the analysis of 2D methyl-TROSY spectra. Analysis of the leucine and valine biosynthesis pathways revealed that the incorporation of labeled precursors in the leucine pathway can be inhibited by the addition of exogenous l-leucine-d10. We exploited this property to label stereospecifically the pro-R and pro-S methyl groups of valine with minimal scrambling to the leucine residues. This new labeling protocol was applied to the 468 kDa homododecameric peptidase TET2 to decrease the complexity of its NMR spectra. All of the pro-S valine methyl resonances of TET2 were assigned by combining mutagenesis with this innovative labeling approach. The assignments were transferred to the pro-R groups using an optimally labeled sample and a set of triple resonance experiments. This improved labeling scheme enables us to overcome the main limitation of overcrowding in the NMR spectra of prochiral methyl groups, which is a prerequisite for the site-specific measurement of the structural and dynamic parameters or for the study of interactions in very large protein assemblies.
Abstract A method for the simultaneous assay of 2-acetolactate and 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate formation catalyzed by acetohydroxy acid synthase in the presence of its substrates pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate is described. The method, appropriate for the study of the physiologcally and mechanistically significant competition between the two reactions, involves oxidative decarboxylation of the acetohydroxy acids to the corresponding 2,3-diketones, transfer of the volatile diketones to methanol, and gas chromatographic analysis with electron-capture detection. Oxidative decarboxylation by air requires catalytic activation, and addition of iron salts is crucial to the success of the method with purified enzymes.
To produce branched-chain and higher alcohols in a non-native producer, Atsumi and coworkers devised a strategy which involves "hijacking" the native amino acid metabolism of the host organism and diverts the amino acid intermediate to the 2-keto acid degradation pathway for higher alcohol production (Atsumi et al. 2008 ). In the l-valine biosynthetic pathway, acetolactate synthase (Ilv2) condenses two molecules of pyruvate to 2-acetolactate, which is then reduced to 2,3-dihydroxyisovalerate by acetohydroxyacid reductoisomerase (Ilv5). Next, 2,3-dihydroxyisovalerate is converted to 2-ketoisovalerate, a key intermediate in l-valine biosynthesis, by dihydroxyacid dehydratase (Ilv3). In the ketoacid degradation pathway, 2-ketoisovalerate is converted to isobutanal by introducing a heterologous ketoacid decarboxylase (kivD) from the bacterium Lactococcus lactis or by overexpression of the endogenous decarboxylase (Aro10). The resulting aldehyde is then reduced by an alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh7 or Adh2) from S. cerevisiae to the final alcohol products, including isobutanol. Though the original work was done in E. coli, several labs have since applied this strategy to produce isobutanol in many organisms including the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC7942, the soil bacterium Ralstonia eutropha, and more recently, the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris (Atsumi et al. 2009; Lu et al. 2012; Siripong et al. 2018) .
Acetohydroxyacid synthase [1, 2] (AHAS; EC 2.2.1.6) catalyses the first committedstep in the biosynthesis of valine, leucine andpantothenate in plants and microorganisms. The reaction involves the decarboxylation of am oleculeo fp yruvate followed by reaction with a second molecule of pyruvate, forming 2-acetolactate ( Figure 1 ). The same enzyme participates in the biosynthesis of isoleucine by virtue of its ability to accept 2-ketobutyrate insteadofthe second pyruvate, yielding 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate.T he enzyme from most species, andi soformsw ithinaspecies, haveasubstantial preference in the second step for 2-ketobutyrateo verp yruvate,t herebyc ompensating for the low intracellular concentration of 2-ketobutyrate [3, 4] . The enzyme can also use 2-ketobutyrate in place of the first pyruvate [5] althought his activity is unlikely to be of any biological significance.
Acetohydroxy acid reductoisomerase (AHRI), the second enzyme in the parallel isoleucine/valine-biosynthetic pathway, catalyses an unusual two-step reaction in which the substrate, either 2-acetolactate or 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate, is converted via an alkyl migration and an NADPH-dependent reduction to give 2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylbutyrate or 2,3-dihydroxy-3-methylvalerate respectively. We have isolated and characterized a full-length cDNA from a lambda gt11 spinach library encoding the complete acetohydroxy acid reductoisomerase protein precursor. The 2050-nucleotide sequence contains a 1785-nucleotide open reading frame. The derived amino acid sequence indicates that the protein precursor consists of 595 amino acid residues including a presequence peptide of 72 amino acid residues. The N-terminal sequence of the first 16 amino acid residues of the purified AHRI confirms the identity of the cDNA. The derived amino acid sequence from this open reading frame shows 23% identity with the deduced amino acid sequences of the Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae AHRI proteins. There are two blocks of conserved amino acid residues in these three proteins. One of these is a sequence similar to the ‘fingerprint’ region of the NAD(P)H-binding site found in a large number of NAD(P)H-dependent oxidoreductases. The other, a short sequence (Lys-Xaa-Xaa-Xaa-Xaa-Xaa-Xaa-Xaa-Ser-His-Gly-Phe) containing the amino acids lysine and histidine, could well be the catalytic site of the first step of the AHRI reaction. Southern-blot analysis indicated that AHRI is encoded by a single gene per haploid genome of about 7.5 kbp containing at least four introns.
Although the Ehrlich pathway (Ehrlich, 1907) , the catabolic process that converts amino acid precursors to fusel alcohols, has long been known in yeast (Hazelwood et al., 2008) , industrially relevant production of higher alcohols in native microorganisms has not been demonstrated (Alper and Stephanopoulos, 2009) . Isobutanol fermentation has become feasible via an implementation of a synthetic Ehrlich pathway in Escherichia coli, where 2-keto-isovalerate serves as precursor for isobutanol (Atsumi et al., 2008b) (Fig. 1) . The use of engineered strains with deletions in pathways competing for carbon and cofactors (Atsumi et al., 2008a) has enabled isobutanol titers of 420 g/L to be reached aerobically or micro-aerobically (Atsumi et al., 2008b; Atsumi et al., 2010) . However, anaerobic conditions are preferred for large-scale production due to lower operating costs and higher theoretical yield. We hypothesized that the limited isobutanol production observed under anaerobic conditions is caused by a cofactor imbalance in the engineered pathway. Two of the five pathway enzymes are nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-dependent: (1) ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI, IlvC from E. coli; EC 1.1.1.86) catalyzes the two-step reaction from S-2-acetolactate (S-2-AL) to 2,3-dihydroxy-isovalerate (DHIV), involving a Mg 2 + -dependent alkyl migration followed by ketone reduction (Chunduru et al., 1989) , and (2) alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH, YqhD from E. coli; EC 1.1.1.2) reduces isobutyraldehyde to isobutanol (Atsumi et al., 2010) ( Fig. 1) . Thus, the conversion of glucose to isobutanol requires two equivalents of NADPH. Under anaerobic conditions, however, the only available reducing equivalent is nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), produced through glycolysis. The cells cannot resolve this cofactor imbalance via the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) or the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, because these are functional only in the presence of oxygen. NADPH-limited reactions have been previously noted in commercially relevant systems such as the production of xylitol ) and the production of n-butanol (Steen et al., 2008) . One possible solution to a cofactor imbalance is to overexpress a transhydrogenase, such as E. coli PntAB (Weckbecker and Hummel, 2004) , which catalyzes the reversible transfer of a hydride ion between NADH and NADP + . This transfer is coupled to the proton motive force and uses one proton per hydride (Clarke and Bragg, 1985; Sauer et al., 2004 ). This energy requirement and the metabolic load associated with expression of the transhydrogenase are two drawbacks to this approach . As an alternative solution, Liao (Atsumi et al., 2010) and we propose to replace the NADPH-dependent enzymes of the pathway with NADH-utilizing homologs. Substituting the ADH with an NADH-dependent homolog is feasible due to the abundance of known NADH-dependent ADHs (Jornvall et al., 1987) . For example, AdhA from Lactococcus lactis has been shown previously to be compatible with the isobutanol pathway (Atsumi et al., 2010) . However, an NADH-dependent enzyme, catalyzing the conversion of S-2-AL to DHIV, has yet to be reported. We therefore aimed to switch the cofactor dependence of the native E. coli IlvC from NADPH to NADH. Although there are literature examples of engineered changes in cofactor preference, reports of specificity reversals are rare (Ehsani et al., 2009) . Examples in which the engineered enzyme is placed back into a pathway have shown only limited success in resolving the cofactor imbalance (Matsushika et al., 2008a (Matsushika et al., , 2008b Petschacher and Nidetzky, 2008) . In this study, we describe the engineering of an NADH-dependent IlvC by directed evolution, using iterative, targeted mutagenesis. Upon recombining beneficial mutations, we found two variants with acetolactate (2-AL) reducing activity in the presence of NADH that is similar to the wild-type enzyme with NADPH. Utilizing the best IlvC variant and an engineered L. lactis AdhA variant in the isobutanol pathway improved the yield to 100% of the theoretical limit under anaerobic conditions. We demonstrate that (a) reversal of the cofactor preference of IlvC can be achieved, and (b) by engineering the cofactor dependence of the isobutanol metabolic pathway, the NADH-dependent pathway outperforms over-expression of a transhydrogenase for resolving the cofactor imbalance and the engineered pathway achieves the highest possible yield.
A quick headspace GC method for quantification of volatiles was developed, involving only minor sample preparation. Yogurt flavor compounds could be quantified in the micrograms per kilogram to milligrams per kilogram range without any difficulty, despite the complex matrix. Volatiles of traditional acidic and mild, less acidic yogurts were compared, and important differences were found for acetaldehyde, 2,3-butanedione, and 2,3-pentanedione. Concentrations of 2,3-butanedione and 2,3-pentanedione increased 2−3-fold in mild, less acidic yogurts compared to traditional acidic ones. This is due to accumulation of the precursors of the diketones, 2-acetolactate and 2-acetohydroxybutyrate, during fermentation in mild, less acidic yogurt. These precursors are subsequently converted to the corresponding diketones during storage. On the contrary, acetaldehyde formation was reduced in the mild yogurt, due to growth differences between the lactic acid bacteria used for fermentation of the milk. The quantitative res...
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; E.C. 4.1.3.18) is the first enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway of the branched-chain amino acids isoleucine, leucine and valine. It is a thiamin diphosphate-dependent enzyme which catalyses the decarboxylation of pyruvate and its condensation with either 2-ketobutyrate or a second molecule of pyruvate to give 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate or 2-acetolactate, respectively. The enzyme is the target of sulfonylurea and imidazolinone herbicides, which act as potent and specific inhibitors. Here, the crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the catalytic subunit of Saccharomyces cerevisiae AHAS is reported. Data to 2.7 A resolution have been collected using synchrotron radiation (Advanced Photon Source, Chicago). Crystals have unit-cell parameters a = 95.8, b = 110.0, c = 178.9 A and belong to the space group P212121. Preliminary analysis indicates there is one dimer located in each asymmetric unit.
Recombinant Ralstonia eutropha strain PHB(-)4 expressing the broad-substrate-specificity polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) synthase 1 from Pseudomonas sp. strain 61-3 (PhaC1Ps) synthesizes a PHA copolymer containing the branched side-chain unit 3-hydroxy-4-methylvalerate (3H4MV), which has a carbon backbone identical to that of leucine. Mutant strain 1F2 was derived from R. eutropha strain PHB(-)4 by chemical mutagenesis and shows higher levels of 3H4MV production than does the parent strain. In this study, to understand the mechanisms underlying the enhanced production of 3H4MV, whole-genome sequencing of strain 1F2 was performed, and the draft genome sequence was compared to that of parent strain PHB(-)4. This analysis uncovered four point mutations in the 1F2 genome. One point mutation was found in the ilvH gene at amino acid position 36 (A36T) of IlvH. ilvH encodes a subunit protein that regulates acetohydroxy acid synthase III (AHAS III). AHAS catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to 2-acetolactate, which is the first reaction in the biosynthesis of branched amino acids such as leucine and valine. Thus, the A36T IlvH mutation may show AHAS tolerance to feedback inhibition by branched amino acids, thereby increasing carbon flux toward branched amino acid and 3H4MV biosynthesis. Furthermore, a gene dosage study and an isotope tracer study were conducted to investigate the 3H4MV biosynthesis pathway. Based on the observations in these studies, we propose a 3H4MV biosynthesis pathway in R. eutropha that involves a condensation reaction between isobutyryl coenzyme A (isobutyryl-CoA) and acetyl-CoA to form the 3H4MV carbon backbone.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS; E.C. 4.1.3.18; reviewed by Duggleby & Pang, 2000) , also known as acetolactate synthase, catalyses the decarboxylation of pyruvate and its condensation with either 2-ketobutyrate or a second molecule of pyruvate to give 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate or 2-acetolactate, respectively (Gollop et al., 1989) . The product 2-acetolactate is a precursor molecule used in the biosynthesis of valine and leucine, while 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate is the precursor for isoleucine. AHAS belongs to a homologous family of enzymes that cleave a carbon±carbon bond adjacent to a carbonyl group using thiamin diphosphate (ThDP) as a cofactor. In addition to ThDP, which participates directly in catalysis, AHAS requires two other cofactors: a divalent metal ion that is thought to anchor ThDP to the enzyme and¯avin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), the function of which is unknown. Interest in AHAS has been stimulated by the fact that this enzyme is the target for several diverse families of herbicides, including sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, triazolopyrimidines and pyriminidinyl oxybenzoates.
The first enzymatic step common to the biosynthesis of branched-chain amino acids is catalyzed by acetohydroxy acid synthase (AHAS, EC 4.1.3.12; also known as acetolactate synthase). The enzyme catalyzes two parallel reactions, the condensation of two molecules of pyruvate to give rise to 2-acetolactate in the first step of the valine and leucine synthetic pathway (Scheme 1), and condensation of pyruvate and 2-ketobutyrate to yield 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate in the second step of isoleucine biosynthesis. AHAS requires three cofactors for its catalytic activity, thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), and divalent metal ions, Mg or Mn. AHAS has attracted much interest since it was demonstrated to be the target of several classes of modern and potent herbicides, including the sulfonylureas, the imidazolinones, and the triazolopyrimidines.
Acetohydroxyacid synthase (AHAS) (EC 2.2.1.6) (also known as acetolactate synthase) is the first common enzyme in the branched chain amino acid (BCAA) biosynthesis pathway. This pathway is present in microorganisms and in plants but not in animals, making it an attractive target for both drug and herbicide discovery. The function of AHAS is to catalyze the conversion of two molecules of pyruvate to 2-acetolactate or to convert one molecule of pyruvate and a molecule of 2-ketobutyrate into 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate. Three cofactors are required for the activity of AHAS: thiamine diphosphate (ThDP), Mg²⁺ and flavin-adenine dinucleotide (FAD). AHAS is the target for several classes of commercial herbicides that include the sulfonylurea and imidazolinone families. These herbicides are potent and selective inhibitors of AHAS with Ki values that can be in the low nM range. Such compounds also exhibit low application rates as herbicides (typically ~3 g ha⁻¹) and have low mammalian toxicity (LD₅₀ values typically >4g/kg), thereby highlighting their utility and effectiveness as biocidal agents. However, somewhat surprisingly given the central importance of AHAS in the metabolism of microorganisms, no inhibitors of this enzyme have been commercialized into antimicrobial agents. Here we provide an overview of the biochemical characterization of AHASs from bacterial and fungal sources, analyse the structural features of these enzymes that are criticial to catalysis andprovide the current data on AHAS inhibitors that have potential to be developed into antimicrobial therapeutics.
Plant acetohydroxyacid synthase (EC 4.1.3.18) or AHAS catalyses either the condensation of two molecules of pyruvate or one molecule of pyruvate with one molecule of 2-ketobutyrate. 2-Aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate and 2-acetolactate are formed when the pyruvate concentration is ten times greater than the 2-ketobutyrate concentration. This result indicates that plant AHAS has a preference for 2-ketobutyrate in the second substrate site. A similar inhibition by sulfometuron methyl was observed for the two reactions catalysed by the enzyme. These studies were developed by using a new chromatographic method based on the formation of 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone of acetoin and 2,4-dinitrophenyl-hydrazone of 3-hydroxy-2-pentanone (compounds resulting of decarboxylation of the enzyme products)
