The present study utilized [15N]glutamine labeled at amide (5-N) and amino (2-N) groups to analyze the metabolic fate of glutamine nitrogen in basal and in acute pH regulation of ammoniagenesis. One-hour incubation of LLC-PK1 cultures in a media of pH 7.4, 7.0, or 7.6 containing either [5-15N]glutamine or [2-15N]glutamine resulted in parallel alterations in glutamine consumption in response to acute acid-base maneuvers. Incubation with [5-15N]glutamine resulted in substantial enrichment and production of ammonia at pH 7.4, which was unaffected by the changes in media pH, and in no significant enrichment of alanine, aspartate, and glutamate. In contrast, significant enrichment and production of 15N-labeled ammonia, alanine, aspartate, and glutamate were detected from cultures incubated with [2-15N]glutamine. Ammonia formation, from incubation with [2-15N]glutamine, was stimulated significantly by a low pH and inhibited by high pH. Alanine production was altered in a fashion similar to ammonia formation, whereas aspartate production was unaltered and glutamate formation significantly decreased by a low pH. Furthermore, a low pH significantly increased the production of alpha-ketoglutaramate in a fashion qualitatively similar to alanine production. In contrast to our prior conclusions based on total metabolite production, these studies indicate that although ammonia formation at pH 7.4 is predominantly generated from the mitochondrial phosphate-dependent glutaminase pathway, the increased ammonia formation in acute acidosis is a result of increased flux through glutamate dehydrogenase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Certain halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g., dichloroacetylene, are nephrotoxic to experimental animals and neurotoxic to humans; cysteine-S-conjugate beta-lyases may play a role in the nephrotoxicity. We now show that with dichlorovinylcysteine as substrate the only detectable cysteine-S-conjugate beta-lyase in rat brain homogenates is identical to glutamine transaminase K. The predominant (mitochondrial) form of glutamine transaminase K in rat brain was shown to be immunologically distinct from the predominant (cytosolic) form of the enzyme in rat kidney. Glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase (constituents of the glutaminase II pathway) activities were shown to be widespread throughout the rat brain. However, the highest specific activities of these enzymes were found in the choroid plexus. The high activity of glutamine transaminase K in choroid plexus was also demonstrated by means of an immunohistochemical staining procedure. Glutamine transaminase K has a broad specificity toward amino acid and alpha-keto acid substrates. The omega-amidase also has a broad specificity; presumably, however, the natural substrates are alpha-ketoglutaramate and alpha-ketosuccinamate, the alpha-keto acid analogues of glutamine and asparagine, respectively. The high activities of both glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase in the choroid plexus suggest that the two enzymes are linked metabolically and perhaps are coordinately expressed in that organ. The data suggest that the natural substrate of glutamine transaminase K in rat brain is indeed glutamine and that the metabolism of glutamine through the glutaminase II pathway (i.e., L-glutamine and alpha-keto acid-->alpha-ketoglutarate and L-amino acid + ammonia) is an important function of the choroid plexus. Moreover, the present findings also suggest that any explanation of the neurotoxicity of halogenated xenobiotics must take into account the role of glutamine transminase K and its presence in the choroid plexus.
Abstract Pseudomonas species MA was grown with methylamine as a sole source of carbon and nitrogen enabling the total flow of carbon and nitrogen into this organism to be simultaneously monitored in vivo using 13C and 15N NMR. [13C]Methylamine was rapidly and extensively incorporated into the methyl group of N-methylglutamate during high oxygenation of the cell suspension, but when the oxygenation rate was lower, a significant portion was also found in the methyl group of gamma-glutamylmethylamide. At later times the carbon label was found in intermediates of the serine assimilation pathway, with glutamate derived from the tricarboxylic acid cycle being the most abundant product. Incorporation of [15N]methylamine was only detected as N-methyl[15N]glutamate, but when protein synthesis was inhibited, the label was also detected in the amino nitrogen of glutamate. When oxygenation rates were lower, the 15N-labeled methylamine was found in the methylamide group of gamma-glutamylmethylamide in addition to being incorporated into N-methylglutamate. gamma-Glutamylmethylamide formation was linked to the overall energy state of the cell and was not affected by inhibition of the carbon assimilation pathway. Neither 5-hydroxy-N-methylpyroglutamate nor N-methyl-alpha-ketoglutaramate were detected to any significant extent. A mechanism was proposed for the role of gamma-glutamylmethylamide in the regulation of endogenous nitrogen supplies in this organism.
Our purpose was to identify the sequence of omega-amidase, which hydrolyses the amide group of alpha-ketoglutaramate, a product formed by glutamine transaminases. In the Bacillus subtilis genome, the gene encoding a glutamine transaminase (mtnV) is flanked by a gene encoding a putative 'carbon-nitrogen hydrolase'. The closest mammalian homolog of this putative bacterial omega-amidase is 'nitrilase 2', whose size and amino acid composition were in good agreement with those reported for purified rat liver omega-amidase. Mouse nitrilase 2 was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and shown to catalyse the hydrolysis of alpha-ketoglutaramate and other known substrates of omega-amidase. No such activity was observed with mouse nitrilase 1. We conclude that mammalian nitrilase 2 is omega-amidase.
Certain halogenated hydrocarbons, e.g., dichloroacetylene, are nephrotoxic to experimental animals and neurotoxic to humans; cysteine-S-conjugate beta-lyases may play a role in the nephrotoxicity. We now show that with dichlorovinylcysteine as substrate the only detectable cysteine-S-conjugate beta-lyase in rat brain homogenates is identical to glutamine transaminase K. The predominant (mitochondrial) form of glutamine transaminase K in rat brain was shown to be immunologically distinct from the predominant (cytosolic) form of the enzyme in rat kidney. Glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase (constituents of the glutaminase II pathway) activities were shown to be widespread throughout the rat brain. However, the highest specific activities of these enzymes were found in the choroid plexus. The high activity of glutamine transaminase K in choroid plexus was also demonstrated by means of an immunohistochemical staining procedure. Glutamine transaminase K has a broad specificity toward amino acid and alpha-keto acid substrates. The omega-amidase also has a broad specificity; presumably, however, the natural substrates are alpha-ketoglutaramate and alpha-ketosuccinamate, the alpha-keto acid analogues of glutamine and asparagine, respectively. The high activities of both glutamine transaminase K and omega-amidase in the choroid plexus suggest that the two enzymes are linked metabolically and perhaps are coordinately expressed in that organ. The data suggest that the natural substrate of glutamine transaminase K in rat brain is indeed glutamine and that the metabolism of glutamine through the glutaminase II pathway (i.e., L-glutamine and alpha-keto acid-->alpha-ketoglutarate and L-amino acid + ammonia) is an important function of the choroid plexus. Moreover, the present findings also suggest that any explanation of the neurotoxicity of halogenated xenobiotics must take into account the role of glutamine transminase K and its presence in the choroid plexus.
Glutamine transaminase K (GTK), which is a freely reversible glutamine (methionine) aromatic amino acid aminotransferase, is present in most mammalian tissues, including brain. Quantitatively, the most important amine donor in vivo is glutamine. The product of glutamine transamination (i.e., alpha-ketoglutaramate; alphaKGM) is rapidly removed by cyclization and/or conversion to alpha-ketoglutarate. Transamination is therefore "pulled" in the direction of glutamine utilization. Major biological roles of GTK are to maintain low levels of phenylpyruvate and to close the methionine salvage pathway. GTK also catalyzes the transamination of cystathionine, lanthionine, and thialysine to the corresponding alpha-keto acids, which cyclize to ketimines. The cyclic ketimines and several metabolites derived therefrom are found in brain. It is not clear whether these compounds have a biological function or are metabolic dead-ends. However, high-affinity binding of lanthionine ketimine (LK) to brain membranes has been reported. Mammalian tissues possess several enzymes capable of catalyzing transamination of kynurenine in vitro. Two of these kynurenine aminotransferases (KATs), namely KAT I and KAT II, are present in brain and have been extensively studied. KAT I and KAT II are identical to GTK and alpha-aminoadipate aminotransferase, respectively. GTK/KAT I is largely cytosolic in kidney, but mostly mitochondrial in brain. The same gene codes for both forms, but alternative splicing dictates whether a 32-amino acid mitochondrial-targeting sequence is present in the expressed protein. The activity of KAT I is altered by a missense mutation (E61G) in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. The symptoms may be due in part to alteration of kynurenine transamination. However, owing to strong competition from other amino acid substrates, the turnover of kynurenine to kynurenate by GTK/KAT I in nervous tissue must be slow unless kynurenine and GTK are sequestered in a compartment distinct from the major amino acid pools. The possibility is discussed that the spontaneous hypertension in rats carrying the GTK/KAT I mutation may be due in part to disruption of glutamine transamination. GTK is one of several pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-containing enzymes that can catalyze non-physiological beta-elimination reactions with cysteine S-conjugates containing a good leaving group attached at the sulfur. These elimination reactions may contribute to the bioactivation of certain electrophiles, resulting in toxicity to kidney, liver, brain, and possibly other organs. On the other hand, the beta-lyase reaction catalyzed by GTK may be useful in the conversion of some cysteine S-conjugate prodrugs to active components in vivo. The roles of GTK in (a) brain nitrogen, sulfur, and aromatic amino acid/kynurenine metabolism, (b) brain alpha-keto acid metabolism, (c) bioactivation of certain electrophiles in brain, (d) prodrug targeting, and (e) maintenance of normal blood pressure deserve further study.
The ability of Schistosoma mansoni to generate energy through aerobic metabolic processes was examined in adult parasites in vitro. Parasite catabolism of radiolabeled glucose, glutamine, and other amino acids to CO2 and Krebs cycle intermediates was measured under a variety of incubation conditions. L-Glutamine was metabolized to CO2 via the intermediates glutamate, alpha-ketoglutaramate, and alpha-ketoglutarate in worms incubated in a balanced salts solution containing this amino acid as the only organic constituent. Of the other amino acids tested, CO2 production was detected from L-glutamate and L-asparagine. The catabolism of L-glutamine to CO2 was reduced by the respiratory inhibitor antimycin A. The motility of schistosomes in culture was maintained for at least 24 hr when L-glutamine was the only carbon source available to the worms. Under these conditions, motility was reduced when parasites were exposed to a respiratory inhibitor such as KCN, antimycin A, rotenone, or oligomycin, but it was completely restored by the addition of glucose to the medium. These results suggest that while the schistosome is capable of limited aerobic energy-generating processes under certain conditions, survival is not contingent upon these processes in the presence of glucose.
The present report identifies the enzymatic substrates of a member of the mammalian nitrilase-like (Nit) family. Nit2, which is widely distributed in nature, has been suggested to be a tumor suppressor protein. The protein was assumed to be an amidase based on sequence homology to other amidases and on the presence of a putative amidase-like active site. This assumption was recently confirmed by the publication of the crystal structure of mouse Nit2. However, the in vivo substrates were not previously identified. Here we report that rat liver Nit2 is omega-amidodicarboxylate amidohydrolase (E.C. 3.5.1.3; abbreviated omega-amidase), a ubiquitously expressed enzyme that catalyzes a variety of amidase, transamidase, esterase and transesterification reactions. The in vivo amidase substrates are alpha-ketoglutaramate and alpha-ketosuccinamate, generated by transamination of glutamine and asparagine, respectively. Glutamine transaminases serve to salvage a number of alpha-keto acids generated through non-specific transamination reactions (particularly those of the essential amino acids). Asparagine transamination appears to be useful in mitochondrial metabolism and in photorespiration. Glutamine transaminases play a particularly important role in transaminating alpha-keto-gamma-methiolbutyrate, a key component of the methionine salvage pathway. Some evidence suggests that excess alpha-ketoglutaramate may be neurotoxic. Moreover, alpha-ketosuccinamate is unstable and is readily converted to a number of hetero-aromatic compounds that may be toxic. Thus, an important role of omega-amidase is to remove potentially toxic intermediates by converting alpha-ketoglutaramate and alpha-ketosuccinamate to biologically useful alpha-ketoglutarate and oxaloacetate, respectively. Despite its importance in nitrogen and sulfur metabolism, the biochemical significance of omega-amidase has been largely overlooked. Our report may provide clues regarding the nature of the biological amidase substrate(s) of Nit1 (another member of the Nit family), which is a well-established tumor suppressor protein), and emphasizes a) the crucial role of Nit2 in nitrogen and sulfur metabolism, and b) the possible link of Nit2 to cancer biology.
In higher plants, asparagine (Asn) is a major form of organic nitrogen used for transport and storage. There are two pathways of Asn metabolism, involving asparaginase and Asn aminotransferase. The enzyme serine:glyoxylate aminotransferase encoded by AGT1 has been identified as an asparagine aminotransferase in Arabidopsis. The product of asparagine transamination, alpha-ketosuccinamate, can be hydrolyzed by the enzyme omega-amidase to form oxaloacetate and ammonia. A candidate gene was identified in Arabidopsis based on its sequence similarity with mouse omega-amidase. Recombinant omega-amidase exhibited comparable catalytic activities with alpha-hydroxysuccinamate, alpha-ketosuccinamate and alpha-ketoglutaramate, the product of glutamine transamination. A mutant with a T-DNA inserted in the first exon accumulated alpha-ketosuccinamate and alpha-hydroxysuccinamate as compared with wild-type, both under control conditions and after treatment with Asn. Treatment with Asn led to decreased transcript levels of omega-amidase in root, while transcript levels of AGT1 are increased under these conditions, suggesting that excess Asn may lead to the accumulation of alpha-ketosuccinamate and alpha-hydroxysuccinamate.
Ineffective hepatic clearance of excess ammonia in the form of urea, as occurs in urea cycle enzymopathies (UCDs) and in liver failure, leads to increases in circulating and tissue concentrations of glutamine and a positive correlation between brain glutamine and the severity of neurological symptoms. Studies using 1H/13C Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy reveal increased de novo synthesis of glutamine in the brain in acute liver failure (ALF) but increases of synthesis rates per se do not correlate with either the severity of encephalopathy or brain edema. Skeletal muscle becomes primarily responsible for removal of excess ammonia in liver failure and in UCDs, an adaptation that results from a post-translational induction of the glutamine synthetase (GS) gene. The importance of muscle in ammonia removal in hyperammonemia accounts for the resurgence of interest in maintaining adequate dietary protein and the use of agents aimed at the stimulation of muscle GS. Alternative or additional metabolic and regulatory pathways that impact on brain glutamine homeostasis in hyperammonemia include (i) glutamine deamination by the two isoforms of glutaminase, (ii) glutamine transamination leading to the production of the putative neurotoxin alpha-ketoglutaramate and (iii) alterations of high affinity astrocytic glutamine transporters (SNATs). Findings of reduced expression of the glutamine transporter SNAT-5 (responsible for glutamine clearance from the astrocyte) in ALF raise the possibility of "glutamine trapping" within these cells. Such a trapping mechanism could contribute to cytotoxic brain edema and to the imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in this disorder.
Rationale and objectives: A current clinical trial is testing a drug inhibitor for glutaminase 1 (GLS1), the enzyme responsible for glutamine9s conversion into glutamate, for cancer therapy. However, the results indicated that monotherapy is not ideal. While metabolic profiling of tumors after treatment with a GLS1 inhibitor revealed numerous upregulated pathways which could explain the resistance, the specific pathways involved were not identified. In this study, using stable isotope-resolved metabolomics, we aim to detail the specific mechanism by which cancer cells are capable of circumventing GLS1 inhibition and compensating for glutamate production. Measurement and Methods: Patient-derived pancreatic tumors were implanted through orthotopic model in the pancreas of mice. After using our innovative delivery method through nanoparticle encapsulation of a selective GLS1 inhibitor, BPTES, we then injected 13C5, 15N2-glutamine via intraperitoneal administration, 3 times, 15 minutes apart. Tumors were harvested 2 hours post first glutamine injection. Metabolites were then extracted from tumors, and analyzed using Agilent 6520 Q-TOF mass spectrometer and 1H-NMR. Metabolite intensities were later normalized to protein concentration following analysis. Results: Our results showed that total glutamate levels were lower in BPTES-NP treated tumors as compared to vehicle control ones. Interestingly, we found an increase in (m+5) labeled glutamate (mass of the parent ions (m) and 5 more mass units due to 13C415N1-glutamate or 13C5-glutamate labelling) in BPTES-NP treated tumors as compared to the vehicle control tumors. Moreover, we found that (m+5) glutamate is a product of (m+7) glutamine being converted to (m+5) alpha-ketoglutaramate (KGM) via glutamine-pyruvate transaminase and further on into alpha-ketoglutarate (aKG) by omega-amidase, which can finally produce the identified (m+5) glutamate through glutamate dehydrogenase. Further analysis using 1H-NMR detailed a significant increase in overall KGM intermediate intensity in treatment groups compared to the control groups, confirming the upregulation of compensatory pathway (glutamine-KGM- aKG-glutamate) to produce glutamate upon treatment of GLS1 inhibitor. Conclusion: These results explain the reasons behind the limited clinical outcomes for single therapy with a GLS1 inhibitor, and provide potential therapeutic targets: glutamine-pyruvate transaminase, for combination treatments with GLS1 inhibitors to prevent the compensation for glutamate production amid GLS1 inhibition. Citation Format: Karim B. Nabi, Jimmy Kirsch, Tu Nguyen, Addison Quinones, Jessica Tan, Felipe Camelo, Marjorie Antonio, Jin Jung, Anne Le. Identification of compensatory pathway for glutamate production upon glutaminase 1 inhibition [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2018; 2018 Apr 14-18; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2018;78(13 Suppl):Abstract nr 5473.
alpha-Ketoglutaramate, a deaminated metabolite of glutamine not previously identified in biological tissues, was measured in the cerebrospinal fluid of human subjects and found to be increased three- to tenfold in patients with hepatic coma. When perfused into the cerebral lateral ventricles of rats, alpha-ketoglutaramate (10 mM) depressed the animals' nocturnal locomotor activity, and at higher doses induced circling behavior and myoclonus. The concentration of alpha-ketoglutaramate in cerebrospinal fluid appears to be a reliable diagnostic indicator of hepatic coma, and its accumulation may contribute to the pathogenesis of this disease.
Measurement and Methods: In this study, we sought to expand our knowledge of glutamine metabolism beyond glutaminolysis. Using mass spectroscopy-based stable isotope-resolved metabolomics (SIRM) with 13C515N2-labeled-glutamine, we precisely identified the metabolites produced from glutamine both in vitro and in vivo . Tumors were harvested 2 hours post first glutamine injection. Metabolites were then extracted from tumors, and analyzed using Agilent 6520 Q-TOF mass spectrometer and 1 H-NMR. Metabolite intensities were later normalized to protein concentration following analysis. Results : Our results showed that total glutamate levels were lower in BPTES-NP treated tumors as compared to vehicle control ones. Interestingly, we found an increase in (m+5) labeled glutamate (mass of the parent ions (m) and 5 more mass units due to 13 C 4 15 N 1 -glutamate or 13 C 5 -glutamate labelling) in BPTES-NP treated tumors as compared to the vehicle control tumors. Moreover, we found that (m+5) glutamate is a product of (m+7) glutamine being converted to (m+5) alpha-ketoglutaramate (KGM) via glutamine-pyruvate transaminase and further on into alpha-ketoglutarate (aKG) by omega-amidase, which can finally produce the identified (m+5) glutamate through glutamate dehydrogenase. Further analysis using 1 H-NMR detailed a significant increase in overall KGM intermediate intensity in treatment groups compared to the control groups, confirming the upregulation of compensatory pathway (glutamine-KGM- aKG-glutamate) to produce glutamate upon treatment of GLS1 inhibitor. Conclusion : These results explain the reasons behind the limited clinical outcomes for single therapy with a GLS1 inhibitor, and provide potential therapeutic targets: glutamine-pyruvate transaminase, for combination treatments with GLS1 inhibitors to prevent the compensation for glutamate production amid GLS1 inhibition. Citation Format: Ryoichi Asaka, Tu Nguyen, Brian J. Krisch, Karim Nabi, Addison Quinones, Jessica Tan, Marjorie J. Antonio, Ting Li, Felipe Camelo, Kiet Nguyen, Sunag Udupa, Edward Gabrielson, Anne Le. Identification of compensatory pathway for glutamate production [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2019; 2019 Mar 29-Apr 3; Atlanta, GA. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2019;79(13 Suppl):Abstract nr 803.
Evidence for the participation of the glutamine transaminase-omega-amidase pathway in the utilization of glutamine in Neurospora crassa was obtained. Its participation is indicated by the in vitro activities of glutamine transaminase and omega-amidase, the in vivo accumulation of alpha-ketoglutaramate when an inhibitor of transamidases is present, and the inhibition by aminooxyacetic acid and 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine of the ammonium excreted in the presence of glutamine by a mutant strain that lacks glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate synthase.
