The substituent effects on kinetics and yields of specific intermediates and products for the one-electron oxidation by hydroxyl radicals of various (carboxylalkyl)thiopropionic acid derivatives, 3-(methylthio)propionic acid (3-MTPA), 3,3‘-thiodipropionic acid (3,3‘-TDPA), 3-(carboxymethylthio)propionic acid (3-CMTPA), and 2-(carboxymethylthio)succinic acid (2-CMTPA) have been investigated employing pulse radiolysis on the nanosecond to microsecond time scale, and γ-radiolysis. For each derivative, the initial step was a formation of a hydroxysulfuranyl radical proceeding with absolute rate constants of kOH+3-MTPA = 9.1 × 109 M-1 s-1 and kOH+3,3‘-TDPA = 5.8 × 109 M-1 s-1. The subsequent formation of one-electron-oxidized intermediates such as dimeric sulfur−sulfur (S∴S)-three-electron-bonded and monomeric sulfur−carboxylate oxygen (S−O)-bonded sulfide radical cations strongly depended on pH, thioether concentration, and the availability of α- or β-positioned carboxylate functions. A spectral resolution pr...
The influence of nitrogen compounds in grape musts on the content of sulphur compounds of wines was studied. Different vinifications were performed with the addition of methionine (20 mg l −1 ) and/or cysteine (40 mg l −1 ) to grape musts before alcoholic fermentation. Six grape musts, with different nitrogen composition, from cultivars of the ‘Vinhos Verdes’ Region, in Portugal, were used. Addition of methionine to grape musts enhanced the content of wines in 3-(methylthio)-1-propanol, acetic acid-3-(methylthio)propyl ester, 3-(methylthio)propionic acid and some unidentified sulphur compounds. Increase of cysteine concentration in musts led to the production of wines with high levels of hydrogen sulphide and cis-2-methyltetrahydrothiophene-3-OL and also unidentified sulphur compounds; however, the content of 3-(methylthio)propionic acid in the wines decreased considerately with the addition of cysteine to grape musts. This work showed that cultivars from the Vinho Verde Region show different sulphur compound contents. Avesso wines, elaborated from grape musts with low amino acids level, presented the highest total sulphur compounds content. Wines from Azal branco and Alvarinho were characterised by high contents of 4-(methylthio)-1-butanol and 3-(methylthio)propionic acid, respectively. A high content of N-(3-(methylthio) propyl)-acetamide and dimethylsulphone characterise the Loureiro wines. In contrast, Trajadura wines, produced from a must rich in amino acids, presented a low total sulphur compounds content; however, these wines were also characterised by high concentrations of 4-(methylthio)-1-butanol, acetic acid-3-(methylthio)propyl ester and hydrogen sulphide. © 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
The influence of nitrogen compounds in grape musts on the content of sulphur compounds of wines was studied. Different vinifications were performed with the addition of methionine (20 mg l −1 ) and/or cysteine (40 mg l −1 ) to grape musts before alcoholic fermentation. Six grape musts, with different nitrogen composition, from cultivars of the 'Vinhos Verdes' Region, in Portugal, were used. Addition of methionine to grape musts enhanced the content of wines in 3-(methylthio)-1-propanol, acetic acid-3-(methylthio)propyl ester, 3-(methylthio)propionic acid and some unidentified sulphur compounds. Increase of cysteine concentration in musts led to the production of wines with high levels of hydrogen sulphide and cis-2-methyltetrahydrothiophene-3-OL and also unidentified sulphur compounds; however, the content of 3-(methylthio)propionic acid in the wines decreased considerately with the addition of cysteine to grape musts. This work showed that cultivars from the Vinho Verde Region show different sulphur compound contents. Avesso wines, elaborated from grape musts with low amino acids level, presented the highest total sulphur compounds content. Wines from Azal branco and Alvarinho were characterised by high contents of 4-(methylthio)-1-butanol and 3-(methylthio)propionic acid, respectively. A high content of N- (3-(methylthio) propyl)-acetamide and dimethylsulphone characterise the Loureiro wines. In contrast, Trajadura wines, produced from a must rich in amino acids, presented a low total sulphur compounds content; however, these wines were also characterised by high concentrations of 4-(methylthio)-1-butanol, acetic acid-3-(methylthio)propyl ester and hydrogen sulphide. © 2002 Elsevier
Herein we introduce two charge-neutral 3d-4f molecular magnets whose superstructures with a metal skeleton dimension of ca. 17 × 12 Å are maintained by purely intramolecular hydrogen bonds between the self-assembled, nuclearity-distinct molecular entities: {[Dy(}· 11.25H 2 O·1.5MeCN (2) (Hprop·SMe = 3-(methylthio)propionic acid; H 2 bda = N-butyldiethanolamine; ox 2− = oxalate; glyc 2− = glycolate). The most prominent structural motifs in 1 and 2 are {H 2 O⊂Cr III 3 Ln III 6 } rings that are linked into supramolecular aggregates via a solely hydrogen-bonding H 2 O bridge, resulting in linear water triads, capped at their axial ends by additional Ln sites. The {H 2 O⊂Cr 3 Ln 6 } entities are further decorated by terminal prop·SMe − ligands. 10 Both the ligand patterns of the {H 2 O⊂Cr III 3 Ln III 6 } rings and the terminal ligand environment of the capping Ln sites differ and thus break the dimer-like symmetry of 1 and 2.
Compounds 1 and 2 form as octahedrally shaped crystals in one-pot aerobic reactions (see the ESI †) of basic chromium(III) acetate [Cr 3 (OH) 2 (OAc) 7 ] and lanthanide(III) acetate tetrahydrate Ln(OAc) 3 ·4H 2 O, in a 1 : 1 metal ratio with 2.0 eq. of H 2 bda in MeCN under reflux, followed by addition of 2.2 eq. of 3-(methylthio)propionic acid (Hprop·SMe). When Hprop·SMe is replaced by 4-(methylthio)phenol (Hphe·SMe) under otherwise identical conditions, slightly larger single crystals of the quasi-isostructural yet thioether-free compound {[Tb(OAc) 3 (H 2 O) 3 ] 2 [H 2 O⊂Cr 3 Tb 6 (OAc) 15 (H 2 bda) 3 (glyc) 3 (ox) 3 ] 2 (H 2 O)}· 10.5H 2 O·1.5MeCN (3) can be obtained in low yields. Although not present in the product, Hphe·SMe here is required for isolation of the crystalline material. The presence of oxalates and glycolates in 1-3 is likely linked to aerobic catalytic oxidation of the acetate ligands of the precursorsdirect addition of small amounts of oxalic and glycolic acids to the reaction mixtures did not afford the crystalline product. Due to their low solubility, very few oxalate-containing lanthanoid compounds are known (29 CCDC entries; only 6 entries for oxalate-containing complexes of 3d-4f metal ions). Under hydrothermal oxidative conditions, in situ oxalate formation has been reported for the decomposition of 2,3-pyrazinedicarboxylic acid in the presence of lanthanoid salts; 11,12 oxalate and glycolate can also † Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: Experimental details,
The crystal structure of GcvT of Thermotoga maritima shows that aspartic acid (D96), glutamic acid (E195), and tyrosine (Y100) are hydrogen-bonded to THF (29). These hydrogen bonds are also observed in the structures of DMGO, sarcosine oxidase, and DmdA; sequence alignment of SesA, LigM, DesA, GcvT, DmdA, and DMGO demonstrated that D95 and E189 of SesA corresponded to D96 and E195 of GcvT (SI Appendix, Fig. S38 ). Tyrosine is not conserved at the corresponding position in the protein sequences of GcvT family proteins. Strictly speaking, Y100 of GcvT, Y660 of DMGO, and Y206 of DmdA are hydrogenbonded to THF. In this alignment, Y221 of SesA corresponded to Y247 and Y242 of LigM and DesA, respectively. The E189A and Y221A mutants of SesA were inactive. Considering the reported crystal structures of DmdA (25) and GcvT (29), this finding suggests that E189 and Y221 of SesA would be hydrogenbonded to THF. The reaction mechanisms of GcvT, DmdA, and DMGO were proposed based on 3D structural and mutational analyses (23, 25, 38). (i) In GcvT of E. coli, the electron relay from D97 (or D96) to N113 through the hydrogen bond could make N113 act as a base to deprotonate the protonated amino group of the aminomethyllipoyllysine arm in the substrate, followed by the cleavage of the C-S bond of the arm after migration of a proton from the protonated R223 to the substrate, yielding a reactive iminium intermediate (38). The iminium intermediate reacts with the N5 atom of THF to form ammonia and an iminium ion including the N5 atom of THF. Next, D97 deprotonates the N10 atom of 5-CH 2 -THF, and this deprotonated N10 attacks the iminium ion including N5, to form 5,10-CH 2 -THF. (ii) In DmdA, methyl transfer is suggested to be coupled with proton transfer that is initiated by a base and mediated by a water molecule in the active site. In this reaction, as a nucleophile, Sp 3 hybridized-N5 of THF attacks the CH 3 group on the sulfonium ion of the substrate, to yield 3-(methylthio)propionic acid (25). Therefore, the proton donor is not required in this reaction. (iii) In DGMO, THF attacks the iminium ion of the substrate via the nucleophilic N10 atom, with concomitant deprotonation by D552, followed by the formation of sarcosine and 5,10-CH 2 -THF through intramolecular rearrangement of the covalent intermediate formed between THF and the iminium intermediate (i.e., N5 of THF attacks on the covalent intermediate with concomitant deprotonation of N5 of THF by the nascent sarcosine) (23).
Abstract This work aims to investigate the contribution of a selected non- Saccharomyces yeast species, Hanseniaspora guilliermondii , to higher alcohols, esters, fatty acids and heavy sulphur compounds composition of red wine. Red grape must vinifications of 100 l were performed and an inoculated fermentation with H. guilliermondii was compared to a spontaneous fermentation. The presence of apiculate yeasts was observed in both fermentations; however, Hanseniaspora uvarum was the only apiculate yeast isolated from the spontaneous fermentation. Apiculate yeasts dominated the fermentation until an ethanol concentration of 6% (v/v) was attained and remained in considerable high levels for an ethanol concentration of 12.5% (v/v). The grape must inoculated with H. guilliermondii led to the production of wine with higher concentrations of 1-propanol, 2-phenylethyl acetate and 3-(methylthio)propionic acid, and lower amounts of ethyl hexanoate, pentanoic acid, free fatty acids, 2-methyltetrahydrothiophen-3-one and acetic acid-3-(methylthio)propyl ester, than wine resulting from the spontaneous fermentation. The present study shows that the use of specific apiculate yeasts in grape must fermentations may lead to the production of wines with different chemical profiles, emphasising the importance of Hanseniaspora yeasts as mixed starter cultures with Saccharomyces cerevisiae , in winemaking.
This work aims to investigate the contribution of a selected non-Saccharomyces yeast species, Hanseniaspora guilliermondii, to higher alcohols, esters, fatty acids and heavy sulphur compounds composition of red wine. Red grape must vinifications of 100 l were performed and an inoculated fermentation with H. guilliermondii was compared to a spontaneous fermentation. The presence of apiculate yeasts was observed in both fermentations; however, Hanseniaspora uvarum was the only apiculate yeast isolated from the spontaneous fermentation. Apiculate yeasts dominated the fermentation until an ethanol concentration of 6% (v/v) was attained and remained in considerable high levels for an ethanol concentration of 12.5% (v/v). The grape must inoculated with H. guilliermondii led to the production of wine with higher concentrations of 1-propanol, 2-phenylethyl acetate and 3-(methylthio)propionic acid, and lower amounts of ethyl hexanoate, pentanoic acid, free fatty acids, 2-methyltetrahydrothiophen-3-one and acetic acid-3-(methylthio)propyl ester, than wine resulting from the spontaneous fermentation. The present study shows that the use of specific apiculate yeasts in grape must fermentations may lead to the production of wines with different chemical profiles, emphasising the importance of Hanseniaspora yeasts as mixed starter cultures with Saccharomyces cerevisiae, in winemaking.
The main heavy sulphur compound reported in wine is 3-(methylthio)-1-propanol(methionol), usually found at concentrations above its threshold value, which attributes a cauliflower, cabbage, and cooked-potatoes aroma (Anocibar Beloqui & Bertrand, 1995; Landaud et al., 2008) . Most of the many other heavy sulphur compounds identified in wines, with low detection limits, are usually found at levels below their threshold value; these include 2-mercaptoethanol (poultry-like aroma), 2-methyltetrahydrothiophen-3-one (metallic, natural gas odour), 2-(methylthio)ethanol (French bean aroma), acetic acid-3-(methylthio) propyl ester (mushroom and garlic odour), 3-mercapto-1-propanol (roasted, potato, broth), 4-(methylthio)-1-butanol (chive-garlic aroma) and 3-(methylthio)propionic acid (chocolate, roasted flavour) (Anocibar Beloqui & Bertrand, 1995; Landaud et al., 2008; Lavigne, 1996; Mestres et al., 2000; Rauhut, 1993; Swiegers & Pretorius, 2007) . A family of volatile thiols was identified as a positive contributor to complexity and varietal character of wines (Sarrazin et al., 2007; Swiegers & Pretorius, 2007; Tominaga & Dubourdieu, 2006) .
AIMS ::: Determination of pathways involved in synthesis of volatile sulphur compounds (VSC) from methionine by Oenococcus oeni isolated from wine. ::: ::: ::: METHODS AND RESULTS ::: Production of VSC by O. oeni from methionine was investigated during bacterial cultures and in assays performed in the presence of resting cells or protein fractions. Cells of O. oeni grown in a medium supplemented with methionine produced methanethiol, dimethyl disulphide, methionol and 3-(methylthio)propionic acid. Methional was also detected, but only transiently during the exponential growth phase. It was converted to methionol and 3-(methylthio) propionic acid in assays. Although this acid could be produced alternatively from 2-oxo-4-(methylthio) butyric acid (KMBA) by oxidative decarboxylation. In addition, KMBA was a precursor for methanethiol and dimethyl disulphide synthesis. Interestingly, assays with resting cells and protein fractions suggested that a specific enzyme could be involved in this conversion in O. oeni. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: This work shows that methional and KMBA are the key intermediates for VSC synthesis from methionine in O. oeni. Putative enzymatic and chemical pathways responsible for the production of these VSC are discussed. ::: ::: ::: SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY ::: This work confirms the capacity of O. oeni to metabolize methionine and describes the involvement of potential enzymatic pathways.
Flavor quality is of major importance to the consumer, but the flavor characteristics of beer appear to deteriorate greatly with time, at a rate depending on the composition of the beer and its storage conditions (notably pH). Prior to identifying the influence of pH on the development of the most intense staling flavors found in aged lager beers, the corresponding key flavor compounds were determined by aroma extract dilution analysis. In addition to trans-2-nonenal, beta-damascenone seems at least as important in the flavor of aged beer. Ethyl butyrate, dimethyl trisulfide, 2-acetylpyrazine, 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, 2-methoxypyrazine, maltol, gamma-nonalactone, and ethyl cinnamate are also relevant to the sensory profile of aged beer. Upon aging, a beer having a higher pH produces less beta-damascenone, because acid-catalyzed glycoside hydrolysis is decreased. On the other hand, it produces more 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde, owing to Strecker degradation of methionine. Raising the beer pH additionally causes the release of 3-(methylthio)propionaldehyde from sulfitic adducts. These adducts, more stable at a lower pH, protect the aldehyde against premature oxidation to 3-(methylthio)propionic acid, thus making it available for dimethyl trisulfide formation during aging.
