Abstract Suggested as efficient filler for impact resistance when dispersed into a coating formulation, layered double hydroxide (LDH) materials organo-modified by aniline and benzene derivatives, 3- and 4-aminobenzensulfonic acid (ABSA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (HHBA), are further investigated here to protect from corrosion aluminium alloy 2024. The concomitant release of interleaved organic molecule as well as the uptake of chloride anion was studied by X-ray diffraction to demonstrate the LDH framework efficiency to act as chloride nanotrap. HHBA was found to be immobilised while the two other molecules are released. DC-polarization experiments demonstrate the efficiency of all three hybrid LDH materials in lowering the corrosion current suggesting that the corrosion inhibition mechanism should either proceed by an anion exchange and/or by a complete dissolution of inorganic framework inducing both the anions release but in the latter case by an additional leaching of the LDH sheet cations. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy experiments indicate two opposite phenomena: an increase in the barrier properties of the coating in the presence of LDH pigments but as well as in the water uptake process that subsequently causes the protective polymer film to blister. Such delamination allows the electrolyte to migrate but also the corrosion inhibitor agents to flow onto the damaged area. Elemental analyses mapping around damaged area using scanning electron microscopy coupled with energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy confirm the release of interleaved anticorrosive species that is occurring by anion exchange and/or platelets dissolution when LDH fillers are dispersed into the polymer coating formulation.
The processing of metal–organic frameworks as films is the first step toward localizing them for device fabrication. Herein, we investigated the fabrication of polycrystalline, phase pure and highly oriented [Cu2(bdc)2(bpy)]n thin films on bare and chemically modified mesoporous titania surfaces, using a modified layer-by-layer method. While a film consisting of randomly oriented crystals was formed on a bare TiO2 surface, we were able to show that [Cu2(bdc)2(bpy)]n nanoplates in the thin film could adopt perpendicular alignment upon the addition of acetic acid as a modulating agent. It was found that the addition of acetic acid promotes the growth of crystals mostly along [010] direction, provided that it is added to the metal solution. The effects of the modulator addition sequence and amount, reaction temperature, immersion time and reactant concentrations have been investigated. In addition, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and isonicotinic acid were also used to study the effect of surface functionality. Our primary results indicate that large, oriented crystalline domains could be formed on both surfaces independent of the functionality type. Benefiting from their large crystalline domains, films grown on modified surfaces exhibit higher thermal and water stability in comparison with the film grown on a bare surface.
Fluorescence (FL) derivatization reactions have often been used for the selective determination of bioactive peptides. Herein, a sensitive and selective fluorometric method has been developed for Pro-Gly and Pro-Gly-Pro using a derivatizing reagent 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). In the presence of borate buffer (pH 8.0) and sodium periodate, peptides were reacted with 3,4-DHBA at 37 °C for 30 min. The resulting FL intensity was measured by spectrofluorometer with the excitation wavelength of 450 nm and the emission wavelength of 535 nm. Different reaction conditions such as concentrations of the reagents, reaction time and pH were optimized to develop the method. Under the optimized conditions, a linear relationship was obtained between FL intensity and peptide concentration from 5–30 µM with a lower detection limit of 5 µM. We found that 3,4-DHBA showed strong preference for Pro-Gly and Pro-Gly-Pro amongst all the peptides tested and no other biogenic substances such as amino acids or proteins produced any FL. The reaction is selective, sensitive and simple which can be applied for the determination of peptides as biomarkers in biological samples or for the assay of various protease activities.
Abstract An on-line system for preconcentration and determination of copper at μg l−1 level by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) is proposed. Amberlite XAD-2 functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid packed in a minicolumn was used as sorbent. Copper(II) ions were sorbed in the minicolumn, from which it could be eluted by hydrochloric acid solution directly to the nebulizer–burner system of the FAAS. Eluent solution was carried by water at a flow rate of 5.00 ml min−1. Signals were measured as peak height by using an instrument software. Achieved sampling rate was 27 samples per hour. Analytical parameters were evaluated and the results demonstrated that copper can be determined, with acetate buffer to adjust the sample pH at 6.0, preconcentration time of 120 s and a sample flow rate of 6.50 ml min−1. The desorption was carried out with 30 μl of a 1.0 mol l−1 hydrochloric acid solution. An enrichment factor of 33 in 13.00 ml of sample (120 s preconcentration time) was achieved by using the time-based technique. The detection limit (DL) (3 s) was 0.27 μg l−1 and the precision (assessed as the relative standard deviation) reached values of 5.7–1.1% in copper solutions of 5.00 to 50.00 μg l−1 concentration, respectively. The accuracy of procedure was confirmed by copper determination in certified reference materials. Recoveries of spike additions (1.0 or 2.0 μg g−1) to food samples were quantitative (90.0–110.0%). These results proved also that the procedure is not affected by matrix interference and can be applied satisfactorily for copper determination in rice flour and starch samples.
Physiological concentration of Mg2+, Cu2+, and Zn2+ accelerated AGE formation only in glucose-mediated conditions, which was effectively inhibited by chelating ligands. Only quercetin (10) inhibited MGO-mediated AGE formation as well as glucose- and ribose-mediated AGE formation among 10 polyphenols (1-10) tested. We performed an additional structure-activity relationship (SAR) study on flavanols (10, 11, 12, 13, and 14). Morin (12) and kaempherol (14) showed inhibitory activity against MGO-mediated AGE formation, whereas rutin (11) and fisetin (13) did not. These observations indicate that 3,5,7,4'-tetrahydroxy and 4-keto groups of 10 are important to yield newly revised mono-MGO adducts (16 and 17) and di-MGO adduct (18) having cyclic hemiacetals, while 3'-hydroxy group is not essential. We propose here a comprehensive inhibitory mechanism of 10 against AGE formation including chelation effect, trapping of MGO, and trapping of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which leads to oxidative degradation of 18 to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (15) and other fragments.
In an effort to reduce volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in paint solvents, replacements containing non-VOC compounds have been proposed. One such compound is 4-chlorobenzotrifluoride (CBTF), for which environmental fate studies have not been conducted. The objective of the present study was to determine the products of the atmospheric oxidation of CBTF and the aqueous fate of these products. Smog chamber experiments were performed to measure the kinetics and mechanism of atmospheric oxidation. A rate constant of 2.22 (+/-0.30) x 10(-13) cm3 molecule(-1) s(-1) was determined for the reaction of hydroxyl radicals with CBTF in 700 Torr of air at 296 K. Using offline sampling and gas chromatography coupled to mass spectroscopic analysis, it was determined that 2-chloro-5-trifluoromethylphenol (o-CTFP) was the primary product of CBTF atmospheric oxidation. Aqueous photolysis of o-CTFP in deionized water proceeded at a rate of 1.3 (+/-0.1) x 10(-4) s(-1), corresponding to a half-life of 1.5 +/- 0.1 h and a quantum yield of 6.6 (+/-0.4) x 10(-4). The mechanism of photolysis was investigated using liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry, which suggested that degradation of o-CTFP occurred via photonucleophilic displacement of chlorine, followed by photoinduced hydrolysis of the trifluoromethyl group to yield 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (an approved food additive considered to be nontoxic).
. The mechanism of photolysis was investigated using liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry, which suggested that degradation of o-CTFP occurred via photonucleophilic displacement of chlorine, followed by photoinduced hydrolysis of the trifluoromethyl group to yield 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (an approved food additive considered to be nontoxic).
Objective To study the chemical constituents of the flowers of Gypsophila oldhamiana Miq..Methods The compounds were isolated and purified by column chromatography and their structures were identified on the basis of physicochemical properties and spectral analysis.Results Seven compounds were isolated and their structures were identified as syringaldehyde(Ⅰ),isovitexin(Ⅱ),soya-cerebrosideⅠ(Ⅲ),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅳ),arbutin(Ⅴ),β-sitosterol(Ⅵ),daucosterol(Ⅶ).Conclusion Compound Ⅰ~Ⅶ can be isolated from the flowers of Gypsophila oldhamiana Miq.for the first time.Compound Ⅰ,Ⅳ and Ⅴ can be isolated from Gypsophila L.for the first time.Compound Ⅱ can be isolated from this plant for the first time.
Abstract A xanthine oxidase hydroxyl radical (·OH)-generating system was created for sustained in vitro production of ·OH. This assay was coupled with microdialysis sampling to elucidate the factors that influence microdialysis calibration during radical trapping. A ·OH trapping agent, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, was included either in the microdialysis perfusion fluid or in the medium external to the microdialysis probe. Xanthine oxidase enzymatic activity was reproducible and had an average activity measured by UV absorbance of produced uric acid of 0.037 ± 0.005 ΔAU/min ( n = 5). A considerable amount of variance in the rate and amount of the product, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), was observed when one microdialysis probe was placed in the reaction mixture. When two microdialysis probes were placed in the reaction mixture, a greater rate and amount of 3,4-DHBA was observed. Different concentrations of 3,4-DHBA were obtained between quiescent and stirred systems.
The anti inflammatory activity of the leaf extract of Vitex negundo was investigated on topical administration using the TPA. (tetradecanoylphorbol acetate)-induced mouse ear inflammation model. The crude methanolic extract of V. negundo showed moderate inhibition (74%) at a dose of 2 mg per ear. The methanol extract was then subjected to liquid-liquid fractionation with petroleum ether, chloroform, ethyl-acetate and ethanol. Bioassay-guided chromatographic fractionation of these fractions led to the isolation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the bioactive principle responsible for the anti-inflammatory activity. The structures of the pure compounds were elucidated using various spectroscopic techniques.
The asymmetric unit of the title compound, C 7 H 6 O 4 ÁC 5 H 5 N, consists of one 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and one pyridine molecule, both located on general positions. The 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid molecules are arranged in layers and are connected by intermolecular O-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonding, forming channels along the a axis in which the pyridine molecules are located. The pyridine and the acid molecules are additionally linked by strong O-HÁ Á ÁN hydrogen bonding and by weak -stacking interactions with centroid-centroid distances between the pyridine rings of 3.727 (2) Å . 
A sensitive assay for catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity by high-performance liquid chromatography with on-line radiochemical detection was described. The method was based on the measurement of 3H-labeled 3-O- and 4-O-methylated products of the substrate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, using S-adenosyl-l-[methyl-3H]methionine as the methyl donor, or the measurement of 14C-labeled 3-O- and 4-O-methylated products of the substrate, [7-14C]dopamine. The reaction products were determined from the incubation mixture after removal of protein by injecting an aliquot into the liquid chromatograph. The detection limit with counting efficiency of 40% was 0.45 pmol 3H-labeled product, and 0.04 pmol 14C-labeled product with 61% counting efficiency. The method is suitable for assaying membrane-bound and soluble COMT activities in the brain tissue and for calculation of meta/para product ratios.
The inhibition kinetics of rat liver and duodenum soluble catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) with a disubstituted catechol OR-462 was studied. After preincubation of the enzyme and inhibitor in the presence of magnesium and S-adenyosylmethionine, an inhibition about thirty times greater than that without preincubation was observed. Reversible tight-binding inhibition was demonstrated with Ki values of 0.7 nM and 1.0 nM for liver and duodenum enzyme, respectively. Km values of 53.4 microM and 56.9 microM for substrate 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 23.0 microM and 17.5 microM for S-adenosylmethionine were calculated for liver and duodenum enzyme, respectively. A catalytic number of 24/min for liver soluble COMT was calculated.
The solubilization of certain organic acids in aqueous solutions of their salts has been attributed to a complexation between the acid and anion species. In the present investigation solubility studies were used in an effort to ascertain the factors influencing such complexation and to determine the nature of the complexes formed. Benzoic acid, salicylic acid, p-hydroxy-, 2,4-dihydroxy-, 2,5-dihydroxy-, 2,6-dihy- droxy-, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, phenylacetic acid, adipic acid, barbituric acid, barbital, phenobarbital, and saccharin showed substantial increases in solubility in the presence of their sodium salts. Studies with atropine and procaine in solutions of their salts showed that similar complexes occurred in these systems. In some cases insoluble complexes were formed at high salt concentrations. Addition of hydroxyl groups to benzoic acid favors complexation. Quantitative evaluation of equilibrium constants could not be determined because of a concurrent salting out effect.
Ferulic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid, FA) is a lignin-derived phenolic compound abundant in plant biomass. The utilization of FA and its conversion to valuable compounds is desired. Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA) is a precursor of polymers and plastics and a constituent of food. A microbial conversion system to produce PCA from FA was developed in this study using a PCA-producing strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum F (ATCC 21420). C. glutamicum strain F grown at 30 °C for 48 h utilized 2 mM each of FA and vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid, VA) to produce PCA, which was secreted into the medium. FA may be catabolized by C. glutamicum through proposed (I) non-β-oxidative, CoA-dependent or (II) β-oxidative, CoA-dependent phenylpropanoid pathways. The conversion of VA to PCA is the last step in each pathway. Therefore, the vanillate O-demethylase gene (vanAB) from Corynebacterium efficiens NBRC 100395 was expressed in C. glutamicum F (designated strain FVan) cultured at 30 °C in AF medium containing FA. Strain C. glutamicum FVan converted 4.57 ± 0.07 mM of FA into 2.87 ± 0.01 mM PCA after 48 h with yields of 62.8% (mol/mol), and 6.91 mM (1064 mg/L) of PCA was produced from 16.0 mM of FA after 12 h of fed-batch biotransformation. Genomic analysis of C. glutamicum ATCC 21420 revealed that the PCA-utilization genes (pca cluster) were conserved in strain ATCC 21420 and that mutations were present in the PCA importer gene pcaK.
Siderophore activity was detected in the culture supernatant of the magnetotactic bacterium Magnetospirillum magneticum AMB-1. Here we report the first structural elucidation of a siderophore produced by a magnetotactic bacterium. The structure of the purified compound was 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and electro-spray ionization mass spectroscopy (ESI-MS).
The chemotactic activity of the pathogen of bacterial wilt disease, Ralstonia solanacearum, was tested against 30 aromatic acids and plant hormones infused on filter discs in bioassays on agar plates. 4-Hydroxycinnamic acid (p-coumaric acid) and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid were strong chemoattractants, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) and jasmonic acid were weak attractants, and 2-hydroxybenzoic acid (salicylic acid) showed both attracting and repelling activity depending on dose. Examination of the dose dependency revealed that the ED50 for 4-hydroxycinnamic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid was 0.08 and 0.39 μmol/disc, respectively. 2-Hydroxybenzoic acid showed chemoattractant activity at 0.33 μmol/disc but chemorepellent activity at 3.3 μmol/disc, and bacterial random motility was activated at 1.0 μmol/disc and bacterial activity was suppressed at 33 μmol/disc. Although water-soluble attractants including amino acids and organic acids have been previously investigated, this is the first report of...
Ferulic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid, FA) is a lignin-derived phenolic compound abundant in plant biomass. The utilization of FA and its conversion to valuable compounds is desired. Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA) is a precursor of polymers and plastics and a constituent of food. A microbial conversion system to produce PCA from FA was developed in this study using a PCA-producing strain of Corynebacterium glutamicum F (ATCC 21420). C. glutamicum strain F grown at 30 °C for 48 h utilized 2 mM each of FA and vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid, VA) to produce PCA, which was secreted into the medium. FA may be catabolized by C. glutamicum through proposed (I) non-β-oxidative, CoA-dependent or (II) β-oxidative, CoA-dependent phenylpropanoid pathways. The conversion of VA to PCA is the last step in each pathway. Therefore, the vanillate O-demethylase gene (vanAB) from Corynebacterium efficiens NBRC 100395 was expressed in C. glutamicum F (designated strain FVan) cultured at 30 °C in AF medium containing FA. Strain C. glutamicum FVan converted 4.57 ± 0.07 mM of FA into 2.87 ± 0.01 mM PCA after 48 h with yields of 62.8% (mol/mol), and 6.91 mM (1064 mg/L) of PCA was produced from 16.0 mM of FA after 12 h of fed-batch biotransformation. Genomic analysis of C. glutamicum ATCC 21420 revealed that the PCA-utilization genes (pca cluster) were conserved in strain ATCC 21420 and that mutations were present in the PCA importer gene pcaK.
An on-line system for preconcentration and determination of copper at mug l(-1) level by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) is proposed. Amberlite XAD-2 functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid packed in a minicolumn was used as sorbent. Copper(II) ions were sorbed in the minicolumn, from which it could be eluted by hydrochloric acid solution directly to the nebulizer-burner system of the FAAS. Eluent solution was carried by water at a flow rate of 5.00 ml min(-1). Signals were measured as peak height by using an instrument software. Achieved sampling rate was 27 samples per hour. Analytical parameters were evaluated and the results demonstrated that copper can be determined, with acetate buffer to adjust the sample pH at 6.0, preconcentration time of 120 s and a sample flow rate of 6.50 ml min(-1). The desorption was carried out with 30 mul of a 1.0 mol l(-1) hydrochloric acid solution. An enrichment factor of 33 in 13.00 ml of sample (120 s preconcentration time) was achieved by using the time-based technique. The detection limit (DL) (3 s) was 0.27 mug l(-1) and the precision (assessed as the relative standard deviation) reached values of 5.7-1.1% in copper solutions of 5.00 to 50.00 mug l(-1) concentration, respectively. The accuracy of procedure was confirmed by copper determination in certified reference materials. Recoveries of spike additions (1.0 or 2.0 mug g(-1)) to food samples were quantitative (90.0-110.0%). These results proved also that the procedure is not affected by matrix interference and can be applied satisfactorily for copper determination in rice flour and starch samples.
Sclerotized oothecae from the praying mantids, Stagmomantis carolina and Tenodera sinensis, and cocoon silks from the moths, Antheraea mylitta, A. polyphemus, Hyalophora cecropia, Bombyx mori, Plodia interpunctella and Ephestia cautella, were subjected to solid state 13C nuclear magnetic resonance and chemical analysis. The oothecae are composed of protein (83% of the wet wt), water (7–8%), diphenolic compounds (6%) and inorganic salts (2–3%). The major diphenols extracted in cold dilute acid are N-acylated derivatives of dopamine and norepinephrine, including N-malonyldopamine, N-acetyldopamine and N-acetylnorepinephrine. The acid-extractable diphenols account for <1% of the total diphenols estimated by solid state NMR analysis, indicating that nearly all of the diphenols in mantid egg cases are involved in covalent cross-links or adducts with oothecal proteins. The silks are lower than the oothecae in diphenolic compounds (0.1–1%), slightly higher in protein (88–90%) and about the same in water (7–8%) and inorganic salt content (3–4%). A higher proportion of the total diphenols is acid extractable from the silk (4–56%) than from the oothecae, and they include 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and N-acetylnorepinephrine. Subsequent metabolism of diphenols in these structures probably involves oxidation to quinonoid derivatives, followed by formation of covalent bonds between diphenol ring or side chain carbons and nucleophilic groups in the structural proteins.
Today, great emphasis is placed on the search for and dissemination of native plant materials in various industries, with particular emphasis on food, cosmetics, dietary supplements, and as livestock feed and a source of biomass. Solid-liquid extraction (SLE), solid phase extraction (SPE), and ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) methods were developed for the simultaneous determination of 30 flavonoids and phenolic acids in plant materials (lucerne (Medicago sativa L.), goldenrod (Solidago virgaurea L.), phacelia (Phacelia tanacetifolia Benth.), buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum), licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra), and lavender (Lavandula spica L.)). Different SLE methods were tested to evaluate their applicability for the isolation of polyphenols from plants. Then extracts were purified with a C18 reversed-phase SPE cartridge. After extraction, samples were analyzed by UHPLC-MS/MS. The SLE-SPE-UHPLC-MS/MS assay method has been fully validated. For the most compounds, good recoveries and RSDs (< 10%) were obtained. Limits of quantification range from 0.4 to 20 ng/mL. The main phenolic acids in the studied plants have been found to be 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)propionic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Quercetin, rutin, glabridin, and naringenin are the major flavonoids detected in the analyzed samples. The obtained scientific data can be useful to select plant materials with high nutritional value and the presence of many biologically active ingredients, as well as selecting samples used as a plant biomass, as food, and as a component of dietary supplements.
Summary ::: ::: The quality parameters, fatty acid composition, phenolic compounds and antioxidant properties of the seed oil of Canarium zeylanicum were determined. The results indicate that the seed oil of Canarium zeylanicum is an excellent source of essential fatty acids which contains C18:2 (49.35 ± 0.35%) and C18:3 (19.09 ± 0.01%). The total phenol contents of the seed oil and the seed hull of Canarium zeylanicum were 66 ± 6 and 2014 ± 14 mg kg−1respectively. The identified phenolic acids in the methanolic extracts of seed oil include 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid and ellagic acid. Diphenyl-2-picrylhydrasyl radical scavenging activity, inhibition of deoxyribose degradation and the reducing power of the methanolic extracts of seed oil and seed hull of Canarium zeylanicum are comparable with those of butylated hydroxytoluene solutions.
Abstract Potentiometric and spectroscopic results indicated that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid is a very effective ligand for cupric ions and the coordination equilibria formed are relatively complicated. In dilute aqueous solutions the bidentate catechol part of the ligand studied predominates as the binding site for metal ion although the carboxyl group may also participate in the metal ion binding leading to creation of the dinuclear species. More concentrated solutions yield a trimeric complex molecule (Cu 3 A 2 ) with one metal ion bound to four phenolate oxygens and two others bound to the respective carboxylates.
Abstract Twenty conformationally restricted analogues of glutamate including benzoic acids, hydroxybenzoic acids, pyridine dicarboxylic acids, and pyran dicarboxylic acids were tested as inhibitors of glutamate decarboxylase from rat brain. Chelidonic acid, 2,6-pyridine dicarboxylic acid, chelidamic acid, gallic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were the most potent inhibitors of the enzyme, and generally the aromatic analogues were much more potent inhibitors than their aliphatic counterparts. An intercarboxylate distance of 0.75 nm appears optimal for substrate competition, indicating that glutamate binds to the active site in an extended conformation. At least one carboxyl group can be replaced by a phenolic hydroxyl without greatly affecting inhibition. The degree of inhibition was also influenced by the aromatic structure, particularly with respect to the atom bridging the dicarboxylate carbons. Kinetic analysis of the inhibition by chelidonic acid and chelidamic acid showed that these compounds were competitive with glutamate with K i values of 1.2 and 33 μM respectively. Consistent with this result, chelidonic acid also inhibited the glutamate-dependent formation of apoenzyme. Chelidonic acid itself did not promote formation of apoenzyme and did not react with free pyridoxal P. The effects of different classes of glutamate decarboxylase inhibitors are discussed in relation to the formation of apoenzyme and its reactivation by pyridoxal-P. As one of the most potent inhibitors of glutamate decarboxylase known, chelidonic acid may be of value in studies of the regulation of γ-aminobutyric acid synthesis.
The fatty acids 17,18-dihydroxyoctadeca-9,11,13,15-tetraynoic acid (mkiluaynoic acid A) and 18-hydroxyoctadeca-9,11,13,15-tetraynoic acid (mkiluaynoic acid B), 5,7,3',4'-tetrahydroxyflavanol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and a mixture of stearic and oleic acids were isolated from fruits and stem barks of Mkilua fragrans (Annonaceae). Mkiluaynoic acid A exhibited antifungal activity against Candida albicans comparable with that of the standard antifungal agent Ketoconazole. Structural determination was achieved by analysis of spectroscopic data. The flower stalks yielded essential oils that mainly consisted of sesquiterpenoids as revealed by GC-MS analysis, whereby 14 sesquiterpenes and four other compounds were identified.
A non-covalent imprinting approach was applied to synthesize protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) imprinted polymers (MIPs) in the polar tetrahydrofuran by using methacrylic acid as functional monomer.By equilibrium adsorption experiments and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC),the rebinding properties of the MIPs to protocatechuic acid (template) and its analogues were evaluated.It was found that the MIPs exhibited high adsorption capability and selectivity for the template and two kinds of absorption sites in the polymer were detected by Scatchard curve analysis.The eluents and the mobile phase flow rate had an important influence on the retention of the analytes on the MIPs column.All of the results showed that the stronger affinity of the MIPs to the template than its analogues resulted from the size and shape recognition in the MIPs network based on hydrogen bonding interaction.
Abstract The peroxidatic transformation of quercetin was studied at pH 5·5 under UV-spectrophotometric control. The reaction products obtained after 3 minutes' incubation of quercetin (dissolved in ethylene glycol monomethyl ether) with peroxidase (Boehringer, Mannheim)/H 2 O 2 were fractionated on preparative scale by Sephadex LH-20 liquid chromatography using methanol as solvent. More than twenty compounds could be detected by analytical HPLC, from which the following substances were characterized by their spectroscopic data (UV; IR; 1 H- and, in part, 13 C-NMR; EI- and, in part, FAB- and FD-MS): 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid ( Q 1); 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( Q 2); methyl 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenyl-glyoxylate ( Q 3); 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-2-hydro-3,5,7-trihydroxy-3-methoxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (‘quercetinchinone’) ( Q 5); 2,3-epoxy-2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3-[4O-[2-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-3,5,7-]trihydroxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-onyl]-5,7-dihydroxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (2 isomers) ( Q 7) and a trimer ( Q 8) structurally related to Q 7.
Today, great emphasis is placed on the search for and dissemination of native plant materials in various industries, with particular emphasis on food, cosmetics, dietary supplements, and as livestock feed and a source of biomass. Solid-liquid extraction (SLE), solid phase extraction (SPE), and ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) methods were developed for the simultaneous determination of 30 flavonoids and phenolic acids in plant materials (lucerne (Medicago sativa L.), goldenrod (Solidago virgaurea L.), phacelia (Phacelia tanacetifolia Benth.), buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum), licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra), and lavender (Lavandula spica L.)). Different SLE methods were tested to evaluate their applicability for the isolation of polyphenols from plants. Then extracts were purified with a C18 reversed-phase SPE cartridge. After extraction, samples were analyzed by UHPLC-MS/MS. The SLE-SPE-UHPLC-MS/MS assay method has been fully validated. For the most compounds, good recoveries and RSDs (< 10%) were obtained. Limits of quantification range from 0.4 to 20 ng/mL. The main phenolic acids in the studied plants have been found to be 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)propionic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Quercetin, rutin, glabridin, and naringenin are the major flavonoids detected in the analyzed samples. The obtained scientific data can be useful to select plant materials with high nutritional value and the presence of many biologically active ingredients, as well as selecting samples used as a plant biomass, as food, and as a component of dietary supplements.
Two new compounds, maclurin A (1) and maclurin B (2), and six known ones, ononin (3), pterofuran (4), osajin (5), pomiferin (6), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (7), and 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid (8) were isolated from the fruit of Maclura pomifera. Compounds 3 and 4 were isolated from the genus for the first time. Structure elucidation was achieved by spectroscopic measurements and by comparison with literature data. Compounds 2-4 exhibited activities against the cancer cell lines A549 and Panc-28 with GI 50 values from 18.1 to 32.2, and 20.6 to 43.5 µM, respectively. Compounds 2 and 4 also showed cytotoxicity against HCT 116 with GI 50 values of 47.2 and 24.4 µM, respectively.
The oil yields of pecan roasted in microwave oven were higher than those of oil contents of pecan kernel oil roasted in conventional oven. The roasting in both conventional and microwave resulted in peroxides degradation. There were significant differences between roasted and control samples for free acidity. The dominant fatty acids of pecan oil were oleic, linoleic, palmitic and stearic acids. Both Table 2 Fatty acid compositions (%) and tocopherol contents (mg/g) of pecan oils conventional oven and microwave roasting process affected the fatty acid profiles of oils in comparison to control samples. Both roasting processing did not caused any significant change in tocopherol content, but tocopherol content exhibited significant differences according to control group. It can be stated that some phenolic constituents (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catechin, 1,2-dihydroxybenzene, syringic, caffeic, trans-ferulic, quercetin, trans-cinnamic acid) of the pecan kernels roasted in microwave and conventional oven exhibited significant differences when compared to control group.
Several methods have been investigated for the assay of COMT activity in human erythrocytes. Including radiochemical technlques" and highperformance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-electrochemical detectton.c !" However, both methods have drawbacks; the former is hazardous because of the use of a radiolabelled methyl donor. while the latter employs artificial substrates such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA),i-8 3.4-dihydroxybenzylami ne 'J and 2-(3.4-dihydroxyphenyl)naphtha[1. 2-d] thiazole,1O and the results may not be extrapolated to physiological functions in humans. We therefore attempted to develop an assay of COMT activity for human samples.
This work evaluates the reduction kinetics of the antiradical probe 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH (*)) in methanol and acetonitrile by the antiradical activity of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 1) and protocatechuic acid methyl ester ( 2). The reduction kinetics of DPPH (*) in both solvents by the antiradical activity of the p-catechol group in 2 is regular, that is, coincide with the proposed standard kinetic model for the reduction kinetics of DPPH (*) by the antiradical activity of an isolated p-catechol group. Therefore, the antiradical activity of 2 experimentally exhibits two rate-two stoichiometric constants in acetonitrile and three rate--three stoichiometric constants in methanol. In contrast, the reduction kinetics of DPPH (*) in both solvents by the antiradical activity of the p-catechol group in 1 is perturbed, that is, deviate from the proposed standard kinetic model. The deviations arise from the presence of the reactive carboxylic acid function which, in methanol, induces an additional reversible side reaction and, in acetonitrile, turns an irreversible reaction reversible, thus modifying the otherwise regular reduction kinetics of DPPH (*) by the antiradical activity of the p-catechol group in 1. On the other hand, the approximated theoretical kinetic equation that applies for those p-catechol groups whose reduction kinetics is regular and that experimentally exhibit three rate--three stoichiometric constants has been derived and used for fitting.
GC/MS of headspace solid phase micro extraction (HS-SPME) and solvent extractives along with targeted HPLC-DAD of Polish fir (Abies alba Mill.) honeydew honey (FHH), were used to determine the chemical profiles and potential markers of botanical origin. Additionally, typical physical-chemical parameters were also assigned. The values determined for FHH were: conductivity (1.2 mS/cm), water content (16.7 g/100 g), pH (4.5), and CIE chromaticity coordinates (L* = 48.4, a* = 20.6, b* = 69.7, C* = 72.9, and h° = 73.5). FHH contained moderate-high total phenolic content (533.2 mg GAE/kg) and antioxidant activity (1.1 mmol TEAC/kg) and (3.2 mmol Fe2+ /kg) in DPPH and FRAP assays. The chemical profiles were dominated by source plant-originated benzene derivatives: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (up to 8.7 mg/kg, HPLC/honey solution), methyl syringate (up to 14.5%, GC/solvent extracts) or benzaldehyde (up to 43.7%, GC/headspace). Other markers were terpenes including norisoprenoid (4-hydroxy-3,5,6-trimethyl-4-(3-oxobut-1-enyl)cyclohex-2-en-1-one, up to 20.3%, GC/solvent extracts) and monoterpenes, mainly linalool derivatives (up to 49%, GC/headspace) as well as borneol (up to 5.9%, GC/headspace). The application of various techniques allowed comprehensive characterisation of FHH. 4-Hydroxy-3,5,6-trimethyl-4-(3-oxobut-1-enyl)cyclohex-2-en-1-one, coniferyl alcohol, borneol, and benzaldehyde were first time proposed for FHH screening. Protocatechuic acid may be a potential marker of FFH regardless of the geographical origin.
Abstract The mechanism of o-semiquinone production was examined in the tyrosinase and peroxidase catalyzed oxidations of a series of catecholic compounds using the electron spin resonance (ESR) spin-stabilization approach and in the presence of 3-methyl-2-benzothiazolinone hydrazone (MBTH). In the tyrosinase process, the nonenzymatic o-semiquinone formation by inverse disproportion mechanism was clearly confirmed. Mechanistic and kinetic studies of o-semiquinone and o-quinone formation by mushroom tyrosinase were carried out by ESR spin stabilization and optical spectroscopy. Two different types of cyclizable catecholic substrates ( l -dopa and dopamine 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)propionic acid) together with an uncyclizable substrate (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were examined. The reactive quinones were monitored by measuring the apparent initial rates of the o-quinone-MBTH adducts. The transient behaviour of the o-semiquinone was studied by determining the pseudo first-order formation constants (k values in the range 0.226–0.035 s −1 ), the relative second-order decay kinetic constants (k = 3.3·10 2 M −1 s −1 for dopamine o-semiquinone) and the maximum concentrations of the o-semiquinone complexes formed in situ with Mg 2+ ions. The o-semiquinone formation constants are not directly correlated with their maximum concentrations; in fact, the o-semiquinone maximum concentration of the uncyclizable substrate is comparable with that derived from l -dopa. Furthermore, the secondary semiquinone formation is slow and not competitive with the primary semiquinone generation. Then, in our model the limiting factor for the o-semiquinone formation, is not simply the substrate ability to cyclize, and, therefore, the potential toxicity of the secondary semiquinone is questionable.
AIM:To investigate the chemical constituents of Euphorbia latifolia.METHODS:The constituents of EtOAc-soluble portion of 95% ethanol extract were isolated and purified by means of chromatography.Compounds were identified by their physical characteristics and spectral features.RESULTS:Nine compounds were isolated and identified as latifolin(1),kaempferol(2),luteolin(3),quercetin(4),daucosterol(5),kaempferol-3-O-β-D-glucoside(6),quercetin-3-O-β-D-glucoside(7),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(8) and gallic acid(9).CONCLUSION:Compound 1 is a new compound.Compounds 3 and 8 are isolated from this plant for the first time.
The protooncogene Bcl-2 inhibits apoptosis in neural cells, which may involve mitochondrial stabilization and decreased generation of reactive oxygen species. Using in vivo microdialysis we found that following administration of the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) there was a significant increase in the conversion of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) in control mice, but not in Bcl-2 overexpressing mice. Striatal lesions were observed in littermate control mice, whereas, lesions were minimal or absent in Bcl-2 overexpressing mice. This shows that Bcl-2 overexpression in vivo attenuates the generation of reactive oxygen species.
Different compounds that reduce Fe(III) and that simultaneously increase the oxidation potential of the H 2 O 2 /Fe 2+ system, have been evaluated. In this work, the improving of Fenton reactions by 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) or 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (CAT) were studied. The three compounds are able to reduce Fe(III) to Fe(II), but the kinetic results depend on the method used to determine the Fe(II) ion, The dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs) degrades veratryl alcohol (VA), a lignin model compound, to a greater extent than observed in a typical Fenton reaction. The rate of VA degradation was associated with the duration of the chemiluminescence (CAT > 2,3-DHBA > 3,4-DHBA) and not with the sum of integrated counts. The treatment of a cellulose pulp bleaching effluent with DHBs/Fe(III)/H 2 O 2 was evaluated by analyzing their depolymerization at pH 4 and 7 through molecular mass distribution determinations.
Electrochemical oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (I) and 4-tert-butylcatechol (V) in the presence of 4-hydroxycoumarin (II) as nucleophile in aqueous solution has been studied using cyclic voltammetry and controlled-potential coulometry. The results indicate that I via a 1,4-addition (Michael) reaction under electro-decarboxylation reaction converts to coumestan IV, and V via 1,4- (Michael) and 1,6-addition reactions converts to new coumestan VII. The electrochemical synthesis of IV and VII has been performed successfully in an undivided cell in good yield and purity.
Abstract A rapid ultra-high performance liquid chromatography diode array detector (UHPLC-DAD) method was developed and validated for the simultaneous determination of all classes of non-volatile phytochemicals (iridoids, flavonoids and diterpenes) in Vitex agnus-castus (Lamiaceae) fruits, a traditional medicinal plant used against premenstrual symptoms (PMS) and other disorders. Seven marker compounds, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, p -hydroxybenzoic acid, agnuside, 5-hydroxykaempferol-3,6,7,4′-tetramethylether, 1,2-dibenzoic acid glucose, methoxy-vitexilactone, and vitetrifolin D were isolated from the methanol extract of V. agnus-castus to be used as reference substances. Chromatographic separation was performed on a Zorbax Eclipse XDB-C18 (50 mm × 2.1 mm) UHPLC column with 1.8 μm particle size, within 20 min. A solvent gradient from 0.5% acetic acid to acetonitrile at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min was used as mobile phase. Analyte detection and quantification was realized at 210 nm and 260 nm. The UHPLC-DAD assay was validated for the quantitative analysis of agnuside, isovitexin, casticin, 5-hydroxykaempferol-3,6,7,4′-tetramethylether and vitetrifolin D. It was found to be specific, accurate, precise, and reproducible for the quantification of these compound within a concentration range of 0.7–500.0 μg/mL for casticin and 5-hydroxykaempferol-3,6,7,4′-tetramethylether, 1.4–1000.0 μg/mL for isovitexin and agnuside, and 12.4–1000.0 μg/mL for vitetrifolin D. Intra- and inter-day variations showed relative standard deviations (RSD) of less than 3.9% and 6.4%, respectively. Tentatively assignment of 62 chromatographic features found in the UHPLC-DAD assay was carried out by coupling the UHPLC instrument to a quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometer via an electrospray ionization interface (ESI-QTOF-MS) operated in positive and negative ion mode. By using the established quantitative UHPLC-DAD assay to asses agnuside, isovitexin, casticin, 5-hydroxykaempferol-3,6,7,4′-tetramethylether and vitetrifolin D in V. agnus-castus derived preparations as extracts, tinctures and tablets, the applicability of the developed assay to phytopharmaceuticals was successfully proven.
Vitis quinquangularisris is one wild grape specie originated in China and wine made from it has unique flavour style and health functions.Contents of 10 import mono-phenols,such as gallic acid and catechin in wild Vitis quinquangularisris and NW196 wines were determined by HPLC for obtaining of composition of phenolics.The result showed that contents of 10 import mono-phenols in two wine samples were higher than that in cultivated Cabernet Sauvignon wine,with different composition and proportion.Gallic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechin had high contents in two samples.
A modified simplex algorithm was used to optimize a system of preconcentration for cadmium determination in samples of sediments, cigarettes and food using flame atomic absorption spectrometry. The preconcentration system is based on the sorption of cadmium in a minicolumn packed with Amberlite XAD-2 resin functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). The optimized variables were pH and sampling flow rate and the optimum conditions found for these variables were, respectively 8.7 and 8.8 mL min-1. The developed system showed a preconcentration factor of 15.3, detection limit of 0.49 µg L-1, quantification limit of 1.65 µg L-1 and precision expressed as relative standard deviation (% RSD, n=10) of 5.9. The accuracy of the method was checked by analysis of estuary sediment certified reference material (NIST 1646-1). The cadmium concentrations found in sediment samples ranged from 1.73 and 1.90 µg g-1. In cigarette samples the results were 0.085 and 0.193 µg g-1, and in food samples (coriander and lettuce) the concentrations found of this metal were, respectively, 0.33 and 0.12 µg g-1.
Abstract The tetramethylammonium salts (NMe4)2[MO2(2,3-Hdhb)2]·2H2O and (NMe4)2[MO2(3,4-Hdhb)2]·6H2O (M = Mo, W; Hdhb = monoprotonated form of 2,3- or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-H3dhb or 3,4-H3dhb) were prepared and their crystal structures determined. The structure of [Mg(H2O)6](NMe4)4[MoO2(3,4-dhb)(3,4-Hdhb)]2·13H2O, obtained by the recrystallization of (NMe4)2[MoO2(3,4-Hdhb)2] in the presence of magnesium ions, is also reported. The supramolecular interactions of the five structures are discussed in detail concerning the hydrogen bonding patterns involving complexes and water molecules of crystallization.
Real-Time Observation of Translation on Surface-Immobilized Ribosomes. All experiments and preparations were performed in a Tris-based polymix buffer at 5 mM Mg 2ϩ without reducing agents at room temperature (Ϸ19°C) unless otherwise mentioned (19). Cy3-labeled 30S preinitiation complexes were prepared and immobilized via the 5Ј-biotinylated T4 gene product 32-derived mRNA. Purified 30S and 50S ribosomal subunits (final concentration ϭ 1 M) were mixed in 1:1 stoichiometry with 3Ј dye-labeled oligonucleotides specific for hairpin inserts in each subunit and incubated at 37°C for 10 min and then at 30°C for 20 min. Cy3-labeled 30S subunits at 0.5 M were then incubated at 37°C for 5 min with equimolar ribosomal protein S1 to ensure the homogeneity of purified 30S subunits. 30S preinitiation complexes were formed immediately before single-molecule experiments by incubating Cy3-30S subunits plus S1 (0.25 M) with 1 M IF2, 5Ј-biotinylated mRNA construct, and fMet-tRNA fMet in the presence of 4 mM GTP at 37°C for 5 min. 30S complexes were serially diluted to Ϸ150 pM in polymix buffer containing 1 M IF2 and fMet-tRNA fMet , and 4 mM GTP, and then immobilized on a Neutravidinderivatized quartz slide according to reported protocols (19). Unbound complexes were washed from the slide with an oxygen-scavenged polymix solution containing 1 M IF2 and fMet-tRNA fMet , 4 mM GTP, 1 mM Trolox, 2.5 mM 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (PCA), and 250 nM protocatechuate dioxygenase (PCD) (42). Real-time observation of 50S subunit joining and the first round of translation was performed by the stopped-flow codelivery of 50 l of a solution containing Cy5-labeled 50S subunits, ternary complex of EF-Tu, GTP, and Phe-tRNA Phe , prepared according to published protocols (19), and EF-G in a background of 1 M IF2 and fMet-tRNA fMet , 4 mM GTP, 1 mM Trolox, 2.5 mM PCA, and 250 nM PCD. All experiments were performed as such except for the codelivery of Cy5-50S and ternary complex in the presence of 50 M kirromycin. In this experiment, equal volumes of a 2ϫ concentrated solution of Cy5-50S and ternary complex delivery solution were rapidly mixed with an oxygen-scavenged solution of 100 M kirromycin immediately before surface delivery to minimize kirromycin-facilitated GTP hydrolysis by EF-Tu.
Protocatechuic acid (PCA, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), a phenolic compound, is isolated from the dried flowers of Hibiscus sabdariffa Linn. It is a main metabolite of complex polyphenols, especially anthocyanins, which are converted to PCA and also abundantly formed and absorbed in the large intestine because of microbial metabolization (Kay et al. 2005 , Vitaglione et al. 2007 . Previous reports of both in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that PCA has anti-carcinogen (Tseng et al. 2000 , Yip et al. 2006 , Lin et al. 2007 ), antihyperglycemia , Harini & Pugalendi 2010 , antioxidant (Liu et al. 2002 , Sroka & Cisowski 2003 , Masella et al. 2004 , Shi et al. 2006 , Tarozzi et al. 2007 , Chou et al. 2010 , Zhang et al. 2011 , and anti-inflammatory properties (Yan et al. 2004 , Min et al. 2010 , Wang et al. 2010 . However, no scientific investigation has yet been conducted on the effect of PCA on diabetes-induced cardiac dysfunction, which is also caused by oxidative stress, and thus this investigation was conducted to study the anti-hyperglycemic activity of PCA and the effect of PCA on diabetes-induced cardiac dysfunction and other related metabolic parameters in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
In this study, phenolic compounds, minerals, total flavonoids, total phenolic contents and antioxidant activities of the seedless parts (pulp+skin) and seeds of table and wine grapes were determined. Also, the total oil, tocopherol contents and fatty acid composition of seed oils of table and wine grapes were investigated. The highest total phenolic content of the grape pulp was found in Trakya ilkeren (199.063 mg/100 g), while total flavonoid and antioxidant activity of the pulp was determined at a high level in Red Globe (6.810 mg/g, 90.948%). Antioxidant activity, and the total phenolic and flavonoid contents of grape seeds varied between 86.688 and 90.974%, 421.563 and 490.625 mg GAE/100 g, and 90.595 and 145.595 mg/g respectively (p < 0.05). Generally, the main phenolic compounds of all grape pulps and seeds were gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, (+)-catechin and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene. In addition, the oil contents of grape seeds ranged from 5.275 (Çavuş) to 13.881% (Çınarlı karası) (p < 0.05). The major fatty acids of grape seed oils were linoleic, oleic and palmitic acid. The seed oil of the Trakya ilkeren variety was rich in tocopherols in comparison with the other varieties. The major minerals of both the seedless parts and the seeds were determined as K, Ca, P, S, Mg.
A modified simplex algorithm was used to optimize a system of preconcentration for cadmium determination in samples of sediments, cigarettes and food using flame atomic absorption spectrometry. The preconcentration system is based on the sorption of cadmium in a minicolumn packed with Amberlite XAD-2 resin functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB). The optimized variables were pH and sampling flow rate and the optimum conditions found for these variables were, respectively 8.7 and 8.8 mL min -1 . The developed system showed a preconcentration factor of 15.3, detection limit of 0.49 mg L -1 , quantification limit of 1.65 mg L -1 and precision expressed as relative standard deviation (% RSD, n=10) of 5.9. The accuracy of the method was checked by analysis of estuary sediment certified reference material (NIST 1646-1). The cadmium concentrations found in sediment samples ranged from 1.73 and 1.90 mg g -1 .
... The liver is highly involved in metabolic functions and is frequentlya target for a great number of toxicants. Many studies have shown that reactive oxygen species are related to the etiology of degenerative diseases. inc1uding some hepatopathies [1J. [2J. Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)is frequently used as a chemical inducer of experimentalliver cirrhosis. This toxic agent elicits liver damage by forming reactive intermediates, such as trichloromethyl free radicais, via cytochrome P450-related functions in the oxidase system [3J. The main causes of CCl4-induced hepatic damage are related to lipid peroxidation, decreased activities of antioxidant enzymes, and generation of free radicais caused by this agent [2J. The antioxidant activity is an important way of providing protection against hepatic damage. and a number of phenol molecules have been shown to possess hepatoprotective properties by improving the liver's antioxidant status [4J. A recent report [5] showed that the extract of PolygonumaviculareL, a speciesrich in phenols inc1uding flavonoids. presents a potent antioxidant effect. probably related to its high content of phenols. Amburana cearensis belongs to the Fabaceae family and is a medicinal plant used in northeastern Brazil in the treatment of respiratory diseases, inc1uding asthma [6J. Phytochemical studies of its trunk bark allowed the isolation of several compounds, such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), a mixture of glucosylated /3-sitoste rol and stigmasterol. coumarin. four flavonoids (isokaempferide. kaempferol. afrormosin and 4'-methoxyfisetin) and the phenol glucosides. amburosides A and B (AMB.O Fig. 1 ) [7J.
Although there are several studies describing the synthesis of In this work, flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) was used as a detector for the determination of zinc in natural water samples with a flow-injection system coupled to solid-phase extraction (SPE). In order to promote the on-line preconcentration of zinc from samples a minicolumn packed with 35 mg of a styrene-divinylbenzene resin functionalized with (S)-2-[hydroxy-bis(4-vinylphenyl)methyl]pyrrolidine-1-carboxylic acid ethyl esther was utilized. The system operation was based on Zn(II) ion retention at pH 9.5 ± 0.5 in such a minicolumn with analyte elution, at the back flush mode, with 1 mol L -1 HCl directly to the FAAS nebulizer. The influence of the chemical (sample pH, buffer concentration, HCl eluent concentration and effect of the ionic strength) and flow (sample and eluent flow rates and preconcentration time) parameters that could affect the performance of the system were investigated as well as the possible interferents. At the optimum conditions, for 2 min of preconcentration time (9.9 ml of sample volume), the developed methodology presented a detection limit of 1.1 µg L -1 , a RSD of 3.5% at 10 µg L -1 and an analytical throughput of 24 h -1 . Whereas, for 4 min of the preconcentration time (19.8 ml of sample volume) a detection limit of 0.98 µg L -1 , a RSD of 6.5% at 5 µg L -1 and a sampling frequency of 13 h -1 are reported. different functionalized resins, [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] only few papers consider the use of this kind of resin in flow-injection systems. In this scenario, the group of Lemos et al. developed two systems for copper 24 and cobalt 25 determination by FAAS after online preconcentration of the analytes in minicolumns containing commercial Amberlite XAD-2 resin functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and R-nitroso salt, respectively. In both cases, great enhancement factors were observed, allowing the determination of Cu and Co at very low levels.
Four strains of Azomonas macrocytogenes and a strain of Azotobacter paspali were found to produce a common extracellular, iron-binding, phenolic compound. This compound was purified from cell-free culture supernatant fluids and chemically identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid). 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was produced by cells growing in a simple defined medium containing acetate and glucose or sucrose as sole carbon sources. This compound promoted the solubilization of iron from the minerals olivine, glauconite, pyrite, and marcasite. Mineral-free medium prepared by preincubation with olivine or glauconite as the only iron source supported enhanced growth yields of Azomonas macrocytogenes (ATCC 12334) when 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was present during the preincubation period. This suggests that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid may play a role in solubilizing iron from some natural iron sources; however, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid can not be considered a true siderophore since it was produced...
Introduction ::: Hamamelis virginiana, known for its high level of tannins and other phenolics is widely used for treatment of dermatological disorders. Although reports on hydroalcoholic and aqueous extracts from Hamamelis leaf and bark exist, knowledge on fermented leaf preparations and the underlying conversion processes are still scant. ::: ::: Objective ::: Aqueous Hamamelis leaf extracts were monitored during fermentation and maturation in order to obtain an insight into the bioconversion of tannins and other phenolics. ::: ::: Methodology ::: Aliquots taken during the production period were investigated by HPLC-DAD-MS/MS as well as GC-MS after derivatisation into the corresponding trimethylsilyl compounds. ::: ::: Results ::: In Hamamelis leaf extracts, the main constituents exhibited changes during the observational period of 6 months. By successive depside bond cleavage, the gallotannins were completely transformed into gallic acid after 1 month. Although not completely, kaempferol and quercetin glycosides were also converted during 6 months to yield their corresponding aglycones. Following C-ring fission, phloroglucinol was formed from the A-ring of both flavonols. The B-ring afforded 3-hydroxybenzoic acid from quercetin and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as well as 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-ethanol from kaempferol. Interestingly, hydroxycinnamic acids remained almost stable in the same time range. ::: ::: Conclusion ::: The present study broadens the knowledge on conversion processes in aqueous fermented extracts containing tannins, flavonol glycosides and hydroxycinnamic acids. In particular, the analogy between the microbial metabolism of phenolics from fermented Hamamelis extracts, fermented sourdough by heterofermentative lactic acid bacteria or conversion of phenolics by the human microbial flora is indicated. Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Abstract Marfak, A., Trouillas, P., Allais, D. P., Calliste, C. A. and Duroux, J. L. Redox Reactions Obtained by γ Irradiation of Quercetin Methanol Solution are Similar to In Vivo Metabolism. Radiat. Res. 159, 218–227 (2003). The flavonol quercetin is one of the most well-known antioxidant flavonoids. Its antioxidant potential has been studied extensively during the last 10 years, but little is known about the metabolites formed in vivo that lead to the formation of depside and small molecules such as benzoic acids. In this study, γ irradiation of a quercetin methanol solution was used as a model of certain oxidative reactions that occur in vivo. Qercetin at concentrations ranging from 5 × 10−5 M to 5 × 10−3 M, was irradiated with γ rays at doses of 2–14 kGy. Quercetin degradation was evaluated by HPLC analysis. The major radiolytic metabolite was identified as a depside by NMR and LC-MS. Formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was also observed. The presence of CH3O· formed during methanol radiolysis is ...
Objective To determine the chemical constituents of Morus alba L..Methods The chemical constituents were isolated and purified by column chromatography,and their structures were elucidated by chemical and spectroscopic methods.Results Eight compounds were identified as 2′,7-dihydroxy-4′-methoxyl-8-prenylflavan(1),brosimine B(2),7-hydroxycoumarin(3),moracin C(4),isobavachalcone(5),dibutyl phthalate(6),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(7),and morachalcone B(8).Conclusion Compound brosimine B(2) has been isolated from this plant for the first time.
Rhizoids of Fucus spiralis were cultivated axenically in the artificial seawater ASP6 F2. Experiments were made to increase the filamental growth as well as to induce adventive primordia (plantlets). Additions of such carbon compounds as glucose, acetate, and formate had no favourable effects even in concentrations as low as 1∙10−4 M. Mannitol killed the rhizoids in higher concentrations and inhibited growth even in a concentration as low as 1∙10−5 M. Higher concentrations of glycerol also inhibited growth, but 1∙10−4 M was an exception as it initiated plantlets. Many simple phenolic compounds induced plantlets. Among the most active substances were phenylacetic acid, p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, o-hydroxybenzoic acid, and o-acetoxybenzoic acid, with optimal effects in the concentration range of 1∙10−7 to 1∙10−6 M. β-Indolylacetic acid strongly influenced the dry weight as well as plantlet formation at concentrations of 1∙10−8 to 1∙10−7 M, with 1∙10−8 M favouring plantlet inducti...
The aim was to understand the chemical constituents of Brucea javanica, thirteen known compounds were isolated from the fruits of B. javanica by using solvent fractionation and column chromatography. On the basis of spectral data, they were identified as para-hydroxybenzaldehyde(1), para-hydroxybenzoic acid(2),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3), methyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate(4), gallic acid(5), syringic acid(6), dihydroferulic acid(7), luteolin(8), angophorol(9), 2β,6β,9β-trihydroxyclovane(10), stearic acid(11), β-sitosterol(12),β-daucosterol(13). The compounds 2, 4, and 6 – 10 were obtained from the fruits of B. javanica for the first time.
A modified in vitro lipid peroxidation inhibition assay was used to guide the fractionation and the isolation of antioxidative principles of Fnnish pine bark extract. This approach yielded 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) and taxifolin-3-O-beta-glucopyranoside as major antioxidative compounds from the plant material. The structural elucidation of these compounds was undertaken with the help of HPLC-DAD and HPLC-ESI-MS analyses. Their IC50 values, in comparison to trolox (6-hydroxy-2,5,7,8-tetramethylchroman-2-carboxylic acid), were: trolox (1.78 +/- 0.56 microM) < protocatechuic acid (5.77 +/- 1.63 microM) < taxifolin-3-O-beta-glucopyranoside (16.30 +/- 1.98 microM). The method for the determination of antioxidant activity proved reproducible and quick for routine analyses with 96 well plates.
Human gastrointestinal samples from the corpus, antrum, bulbus, jejunum and ileum were assayed for soluble and membrane-bound catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) activity in vitro. The mean soluble COMT activities with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) as substrate were 70-242 and 70-174 pmol/min mg, respectively. The membrane-bound COMT activities ranged from 33 to 60 pmol/min mg in the different parts of the intestine. The AADC activities, measured with L-DOPA as the substrate, increased from 114 pmol/min mg in the corpus to 3488 pmol/min mg in the jejunum. The affinity of the soluble COMT was approximately 20 times higher for DBA (Km 15-19 microM) than for L-DOPA (Km 300-600 microM). The Km-values for L-DOPA of AADC and COMT were of the same order of magnitude. The specific COMT inhibitors, nitecapone and OR-611, effectively inhibited in vitro the human intestinal COMT activity. Nanomolar concentrations caused 50% inhibition with both DBA and L-DOPA as substrate.
Objective To isolate and identify the chemical constituents from the 95% ethanol extract of the fruits of Hippophae Rhamboides L.Methods The compounds were separated by silica gel,Sephadex LH20 and HPLC chromatographies.The structures of the isolated compounds were identified by analysis of their spectral data and chemical properties.Results Nine compounds were isolated from the fruits of Hippophae rhamboides L.and their structures were identified as 4-hydroxybenzoic acid(1),2-hydroxy-succinic acid 4-methylester(2),γ-N-(2-furoylmethyl)aminobutyric acid(3),5-hydroxymethyl-furaldehyde(4),oleanolic acid(5),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(6),β-sitosterol(7),stigmasterol(8)and daucosterol(9) respectively.Conclusions Compounds 1-3 are isolated from Hippophae rhamnoides L.for the first time.
A series of 5-substituted 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acids (isovanillic acids) and -benzaldehydes (isovanillins) have been synthesized and evaluated as inhibitors of rat liver catechol O-methyltransferase. The compounds exhibited either noncompetitive or competitive patterns of inhibition when 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was the variable substrate. The benzaldehydes were significantly more potent inhibitors than the corresponding benzoic acids, and electron-withdrawing substituents in the 5 position greatly enhanced their inhibitory activity.
We have developed several inexpensive fluorogenic reactions using non-FL organic reagents for the highly sensitive detection of specific oligopeptides. The FL reagents can selectively label a few peptides because they react only with the N-terminal amino acids. For example, hydroxylamine in the presence of cobalt(II) and borate selectively labels N-terminal, Tyr-containing peptides [15] . Other selective FL reagents include glyoxal for Nterminal Trp-containing peptides [16] , 1,2-dihydroxybenzene(DHB) and borate for N-terminal Phe-, Ile-, Leu-, Val-, or Ala-containing peptides [17] , DHB and 2-[4-(2-hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl] ethanesulfonic acid buffer at pH 7.5 for N-terminal Ser-containing peptides [18] , 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DHPAA) for N-terminal Gly-containing peptides [19] , and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid for N-terminal Pro-containing peptides [20] . These reagents could be used to analyze several peptides in complex mixtures such as tissues and enzymatic digests [18] [21]- [24] .
Abstract: Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA) is a major metabolite of anthocyanins and was reported to possess anti-allergic response. However, the effects of PCA on airway smooth muscle cells (ASMCs) proliferation and migration remain unclear. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the effects of PCA on proliferation and migration of ASMCs. ASMCs were pre-incubated with various concentrations of PCA for 30 min before stimulation with TGF-β1 for different times. Cell proliferation was determined using the colony formation assay. Cell migration was detected using the Transwell chamber assay. The levels of type I collagen, fibronectin, phosphorylated Smad2, Smad2, phosphorylated Smad3 and Smad3 were detected by western blot analysis. Our results demonstrated that PCA inhibited the proliferation and migration of ASMCs, as well as suppressed the expression of type I collagen and fibronectin in ASMCs induced by transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-β1). Furthermore, PCA obviously down-regulated the phosphorylation levels of Smad2/3 in ASMCs exposed to TGF-β1. Taken together, the present results have revealed that PCA inhibits asthma airway remodeling by suppressing proliferation and extracellular matrix (ECM) protein deposition in TGF-β1-mediated ASMCs via the inactivation of Smad2/3 signaling pathway. Therefore, PCA may be useful for the prevention or treatment of asthma airway remodeling.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA) is a major metabolite of anthocyanins. It is found in a large variety of edible plants. It possesses numerous pharmacologic properties, including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptosis, anti-hyperglycemia and anti-tumor activities [7] [8] [9] . For example, Chan et al. reported that PCA obviously suppressed the migration of vascular smooth muscle cells in a dose-and time-dependent manner [10] . In addition, PCA treatment significantly decreased ovalbumin-induced airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) to inhaled methacholine, as well as reduced the number of inflammatory cells in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid [11] . However, the effects of PCA on AS-MC proliferation and migration remain unclear. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the effects of PCA on proliferation and migration of ASMCs. Our results demonstrated that pretreatment with PCA inhibited TGF-β1-induced ASMC proliferation and migration.
A modified in vitro lipid peroxidation inhibition assay was used to guide the fractionation and the isolation of antioxidative principles of Finnish pine bark extract. This approach yielded 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) and taxifolin-3-O--glucopyranoside as major antioxidative compounds from the plant material. The structural elucidation of these compounds was undertaken with the help of HPLC-DAD and HPLC-ESI-MS analyses. Their IC 50 values, in comparison to trolox (6-hydroxy-2,5,7,8-tetramethylchroman-2-carboxylic acid), were: trolox (1.78 ð 0.56 µm) < protocatechuic acid (5.77 ð 1.63 µm) < taxifolin-3-O--glucopyranoside (16.30 ð 1.98 µm). The method for the determination of antioxidant activity proved reproducible and quick for routine analyses with 96 well plates.
Twenty compounds, including a new lignan amide, were isolated from the aerial parts of New Zealand spinach, Tetragonia tetragonoides (Pall.) Kuntze, which is an edible halophyte. These compounds were identified by mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance experiments to be N-2,3-dihydroxy-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenol)tyramine (new compound), methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, syringaldehyde, ethyl 4-hydroxybenzoate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, coniferyl alcohol, methyl caffeoate, trans- and cis-coumaroyl-β-d-glucopyranosides, trans- and cis-feruloyl-β-d-glucopyranosides, caffeic acid, staphylionoside E, canabiside D, apocyanol A, megastima-5,7-diene-3,4,9-triol, 1-O-oleoyl-3-O-β-d-galactopyranosyl-sn-glycerol, 5,5′-dimethyl-lariciresinol, and kaempferol 3-O-β-d-glucopyranoside. These compounds were identified in New Zealand spinach for the first time.
Molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) using p-hydroxybenzoic acid (p-HB), p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (p-HPA) and p-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid (p-HPPA) as templates were synthesized. The performance of the templates and their analogues on polymer-based high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) columns was studied. The imprinting effect of the MIP using p-HB as template is more obvious than that of MIP using either p-HPA or p-HPPA as template, and the mixture of p-HB and p-HPA can be well separated on the MIP using p-HB as template, but not on the blank. Interestingly, the recognition of MIP (p-HB as the template) to p-HB showed a synergistic effect. The retention factor of p-HB is not the sum of those of phenol and benzoic acid. We also found that the imprinting effect decreased when increasing the concentration of acetic acid in mobile phase. The possible reason is that acetic acid molecules occupied the binding sites of the polymer, thereby decreasing the concentration of binding sites. Furthermore, polymers, which showed specificity to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, can be prepared with p-HB as template. It is thus possible to synthesize a specific polymer for a compound that is either expensive or unstable by using a structurally similar compound as template.
Several secondary metabolites, artemetin (1), casticin (2), 3,3′-dihydroxy-5,6,7,4′-tetramethoxy flavon (3), penduletin (4), methyl 4-hydroxybenzoate (5), p-hydroxybenzoic acid (6), methyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (7), 5-hydroxy-2-methoxybenzoic acid (8), vanillic acid (9) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (10) were isolated from a folkloric medicinal plant, Vitex agnus-castus. The structures of compounds 1–10 were identified with the help of spectroscopic techniques. Compounds 3–10 were isolated for the first time from this plant. These compounds were screened for their antiinflammatory and lipoxygenase inhibitory activities. Compounds 6, 7 and 10 were found to have significant antiinflammatory activity in a cell-based contemporary assay, whereas compounds 1 and 2 exhibited a potent lipoxygenase inhibition. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Steamed soybeans (SSB) were fermented with 30 kinds of Aspergillus strains which have been used in manufacturing Japanese fermented foods and beverages. Methanol extracts from the fermented soybeans were tested for antioxidative activity. Extract from soybeans fermented with Aspergillus saitoi, which had the strongest activity, was subjected to a silica gel column followed by preparative HPLC using ODS columns. Antioxidative principle (AS-4) was isolated and identified as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) by UV, EI-MS, and 1H- and 13C-NMR techniques. Among the six DHBA isomers tested in both oil and lipid/aqueous systems, 2,3-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids exhibited the greatest antioxidative activities. Since 2,3-DHBA was not found in unfermented soybeans (SSB), it was produced during the incubation with A. saitoi. Keywords: Fermented soybeans; Aspergillus spp.; Aspergillus saitoi; antioxidant; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid
Five compounds,4′,7-dihydroxy-6-methoxyisoflavone,3,4,5-trimethoxy cinnamic acid,2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and mannitol were isolated from the methanol extract from the mycelia of Micropolyspora sp..Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectral evidence.All compounds were first isolated from Micropolyspora sp..
Graphite electrode modified with laccase from Cerrena unicolor served as a biosensor for detection of 30 phenolic compounds with different structures. Some correlations of the sensor response to the structures of substrates are discussed. This biosensor responded to: (i) nanomolar concentrations of some of the selected phenolic compounds, e.g., 2,6-dimethoxyphenol,coniferyl alcohol, caffeic acid, DOPAC and hydroquinone, (ii) micromolar concentrations, e.g., ferulic acid, syringic acid, dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and DL-noradrenaline, and (iii) millimolar concentrations in the case of phenol and 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde. Among the ortho- or para-substituted phenols, the sensitivity of the C unicolor laccase-modified electrode increased in the following order -H, -CH3, -OH, -OCH3 and -NH3+ but in the case of para-substituted phenols, the K-m(app) values were lower. The sensitivity of the laccase electrode increased with an additional -OH group in para-substituted phenols. In the case of the selected compounds, kinetic data from electrochemical flow injection system were compared with those obtained from experiments in solution. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. (Less)
1. Although Mycobacterium smegmatis could utilize a number of aromatic compounds as sole sources of carbon for growth, it did not appear to be able to use salicylic acid for growth or to metabolize it to any great extent. 2. When M. smegmatis was grown on shikimic acid as sole source of carbon, salicylic acid, anthranilic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were released into the medium. When it was grown on quinic acid these compounds, together with p-hydroxybenzoic acid, p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and a number of unidentified compounds, were formed. When it was grown on glucose only small amounts of salicylic acid could be detected. 3. When a washed suspension of cells with a normal iron content was incubated with shikimic acid, only small amounts of aromatic compounds were formed in the medium. When the cells were iron-deficient, substantial amounts of salicylic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol were formed, together with several other compounds not definitely identified. 4. When washed suspensions of cells, whether iron-sufficient or iron-deficient, were incubated with tryptophan no evidence of formation of salicylic acid, anthranilic acid or phenolic compounds was obtained. Washed suspensions did not convert anthranilic acid into salicylic acid. 5. When cell-free extracts of M. smegmatis were incubated with shikimic acid, or shikimic acid 5-phosphate, traces of anthranilic acid were formed under certain conditions. No formation of salicylic acid or other phenolic compound was observed even when a number of combinations of cofactors and coenzymes were tried.
OBJECTIVE ::: To investigate the chemical constituents in the seaweed Sargassum naozhouense collected from the sea around Zhanjiang. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The compounds were isolated and purified by various chromatographic techniques including silica gel chromatography, Sephadex LH-20 gel chromatography as well as preparative thin layer chromatography, and their structures were identified by spectral analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Ten compounds were isolated and identified as 1-O-hexadecanoyl glycerol (1), pheophytin a(2), β-sitosterol (3), mannitol (4), uracil (5), thymine(6),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(7) 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (8) 4-hydroxyphthalide (9), and 2'-de-cxythymidine( 10). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: All the compounds are isolated from the seaweed Sargassum naozhouense for the first time.
The effects of light quality emitted by light-emitting diodes (LEDs) on the growth and morphogenesis, and concentrations of endogenous phenolic compounds of Protea cynaroides L. plantlets in vitro, were investigated. Plantlets were cultured under four light treatments: conventional fluorescent lamps (control), red LEDs (630 nm), blue LEDs (460 nm), and red + blue LEDs (1:1 photosynthetic photon flux). Four phenolic compounds extracted from the plantlets were analyzed: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid,caffeicacid,andferulicacid.Thehighestrootingpercentagewasobservedinplantlets cultured under red LEDs (67%) compared with 7% under conventional white fluorescent light,13%underblueLEDs,and13%underred+blueLEDs.Thehighestnumberofroots per plantlet was also found underred LEDs, whereas a significantly lower numberof roots per plantlet was obtained under the other light treatments. Furthermore, red light promoted the formation of new leaves in P. cynaroides plantlets. However, the highest leaf dry weight (53.8 mg per plantlet) was found in plantlets irradiated by the combination of red and blue LEDs. Phenolic analyses showed that the lowest concentrations of 3,4- dihydroxybenzoic acid (4.3 mg·g L1 ), gallic acid (7.0 mg·g L1 ), and ferulic acid (7.4 mg·g L1 ) were detected in plantlets exposed to red light, whereas those irradiated by white fluorescent light contained the highest concentration. A significant inverse correlation (r = -0.419) was established between 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and rooting percentage. Strong inverse correlations were also established between 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and number of roots per plantlet (r = -0.768) as well as between ferulic acid and number of roots per plantlet (r = -0.732). These results indicate that the stimulation of root formation in P. cynaroides plantlets under red LEDs is the result of the low endogenous concentra- tions of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and ferulic acid.
Cellular processes are carried out by many interacting genes and their study and optimization requires multiple levers by which they can be independently controlled. The most common method is via a genetically-encoded sensor that responds to a small molecule (an “inducible system”). However, these sensors are often suboptimal, exhibiting high background expression and low dynamic range. Further, using multiple sensors in one cell is limited by cross-talk and the taxing of cellular resources. Here, we have developed a directed evolution strategy to simultaneously select for less background, high dynamic range, increased sensitivity, and low crosstalk. Libraries of the regulatory protein and output promoter are built based on random and rationally-guided mutations. This is applied to generate a set of 12 high-performance sensors, which exhibit >100-fold induction with low background and cross-reactivity. These are combined to build a single “sensor array” and inserted into the genomes of E. coli MG1655 (wild-type), DH10B (cloning), and BL21 (protein expression). These “Marionette” strains allow for the independent control of gene expression using 2,4-diacetylphophloroglucinol (DAPG), cuminic acid (Cuma), 3-oxohexanoyl-homoserine lactone (OC6), vanillic acid (Van), isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG), anhydrotetracycline (aTc), L-arabinose (Ara), choline chloride (Cho), naringenin (Nar), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), sodium salicylate (Sal), and 3-hydroxytetradecanoyl-homoserine lactone (OHC14).
The method of testing mono-phenol in grape was established by HPLC to determine the content of several mono-phenols in Pinot Noir, Merlot and Chardonnay over the course of ripening, so as to compare their differences. Results indicated that the main monomers in grapes were separated simultaneously by using Hibar RT Lichrospher C18(250 mm×4. 0 mm×5μm) column, mobile phase: 16% acetonitrile watery solution (including 1% acetic acid) ,flow rate; 1. 0 mL/min . During grape ripening, the content of these mono-phenols in red grape (Pinot Noir and Merlot) was more than the content in white grape (Chardonnay); catechin,rutin hydrate,syringic acid and ferulic acid gradually decreased with grape ripening, among which catechin decreased most; the content of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid fell sharply and then increased; content of gallic acid in Merlot increased first, and then decreased slightly, whereas in Pinot Noir and Chardonnay which first increased, then decreased, last increased. In these grapes, the content of catechin was the most while ferulic acid was the least;their corresponding order is cat-echin3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acidgallic acidrutin hydrate syringic acidferulic acid.
Nine secondary metabolites-artemetin (1), casticin (2), 3-hydroxy-5,6,7,4'-tetramethoxy flavone U(3), penduletin (4), p-hydroxybenzoic acid (5), methyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (6), methyl isovanillate (7), vanillic acid (8), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (9)-were isolated from a folkloric medicinal plant, Vitex agnus-castus. The structures of compounds 1-9 were identified using spectroscopic techniques. Compound 7 was isolated for the first time from this plant. These compounds were screened for their antioxidant activity. Compounds 6 and 9 exhibited significant activity against the DPPH free radical.
Iron deprivation activates the expression of components of the siderophore-mediated iron acquisition systems in Bacillus subtilis, including not only the synthesis and uptake of its siderophore bacillibactin but also expression of multiple ABC transporters for iron scavenging using xenosiderophores. The yclNOPQ operon is shown to encode the complete transporter for petrobactin (PB), a photoreactive 3,4-catecholate siderophore produced by many members of the B. cereus group, including B. anthracis. Isogenic disruption mutants in the yclNOPQ transporter, including permease YclN, ATPase YclP, and a substrate-binding protein YclQ, are unable to use either PB or the photoproduct of FePB (FePB(nu)) for iron delivery and growth, in contrast to the wild-type B. subtilis. Complementation of the mutations with the copies of the respective genes restores this capability. The YclQ receptor binds selectively iron-free and ferric PB, the PB precursor, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB), and FePB(nu) with high affinity; the ferric complexes are seen in ESI-MS, implying strong electrostatic interaction between the protein-binding pocket and siderophore. The first structure of a gram-positive siderophore receptor is presented. The 1.75-A crystal structure of YclQ reveals a bilobal periplasmic binding protein (PBP) fold consisting of two alpha/beta/alpha sandwich domains connected by a long alpha-helix with the binding pocket containing conserved positively charged and aromatic residues and large enough to accommodate FePB. Orthologs of the B. subtilis PB-transporter YclNOPQ in PB-producing Bacilli are likely contributors to the pathogenicity of these species and provide a potential target for antibacterial strategies.
Obesity has been recognized as a major global public health concern. In particular, childhood obesity is a major risk factor for other health issues, such as type 2 diabetes, in later stages of life. A few earlier studies have associated exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) with childhood obesity. There is limited information, however, on exposure to EDCs and childhood obesity in India. In this study, urinary levels of 26 EDCs were determined in 49 obese and 27 non-obese Indian children. Eleven EDCs, including 2,2-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)propane (BPA), 4,4′-sulfonyldiphenol (BPS), methyl paraben (MeP), ethyl paraben (EtP), propyl paraben (PrP), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB), triclosan (TCS), benzophenone-3 (BP3), bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE), and bisphenol A bis(2,3-dihydroxypropyl) glycidyl ether (BADGE·2H2O) were found in >70% of urine samples. No significant associations were found between childhood obesity and most target chemicals studied, except for 3,4-DHB, which showed a significant positive association. Urinary concentrations of 3,4-DHB were higher in obese children than in non-obese children, independent of age, sex, family income, parent education, physical activity, and urinary creatinine. Urinary concentrations of several EDCs were higher in Indian children than the concentrations reported for children in the USA and China. To our knowledge, this is the first study to report urinary concentrations of several EDCs in Indian children.
Abstract The radiolytic degradation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (4-HBAEE) and 4-hydroxybenzoate (4-HBA) and the subsequent product formation in N 2 O-saturated and aerated solutions has been studied as a function of dose. The rate constants of OH • radicals with the substrates are k (OH • +4-HBAEE)=7.5×10 9 dm 3 mol −1 s −1 and k (OH • +4-HBA)=6.7×10 9 dm 3 mol −1 s −1 . Irradiation of 5×10 −4 mol dm −3 aqueous solutions (N 2 O, pH 6.0) of 4-HBA leads to the products 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) and hydroquinone (HQ). In the case of 4-HBAEE neither hydroxylation nor decarboxylation products are observable. The predominating reaction pathway with 4-HBAEE is water elimination from the primarily formed dihydroxycyclohexadienyl radicals. By pulse radiolysis a protonation equilibrium of these transients with pK=8.0 could be determined. The protonated OH • -adducts (λ max =385 nm, e=300 m 2 mol −1 ) decay with k =7×10 4 s −1 , the radical anions (λ max =425 nm, e=240 m 2 mol −1 ) with k =4×10 5 s −1 , yielding phenoxyl radicals λ max 405 nm, e=160 m 2 mol −1 and 425 nm, e=175 m 2 mol −1 , 2 k =3.6×10 8 dm 3 mol −1 s −1 , which do not form phenolic compounds. With 4-HBA OH • -adducts water splitting at pH 6 is very slow, k =4×10 3 s −1 , therefore second order decay reactions can compete. At pH 10, where base catalysed water elimination takes place, no hydroxylation products are observable either. In aerated solutions dihydroxy-compounds are formed with both substrates, due to the fast addition of oxygen to the OH • -adducts. In the case of 4-HBA 68% of the OH • radicals result in 3,4-dihydroxyderivatives; for 4-HBAEE these are only 25%. The decarboxylation product hydroquinone is generated only from 4-HBA, its yield corresponds to 18% of the OH • radicals. Comparison of the initial degradation yields demonstrates 4-HBAEE to be 1.6 times more stable towards radiation, for a 50% decomposition of the ester a 2.3 times higher dose as for 4-HBA is required. The low rate of hydroxylation, the lack of decarboxylation products and the remarkable resistance to radiation of the ester of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid is of importance in respect to chemical changes in irradiated fruits and vegetables.
In this study, the differences between oligochitosan (MW 1,000~3,000 Da, C1K) and two compounds [Gallic acid (P-GA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (P-DHBA), Comps] purified from Terminalia nigrovenulosa bark (or two commercial compounds) and mixtures of C1K and Comps were investigated for their antioxidant activities (DPPH radical scavenging activity and total antioxidant capacity) and antifungal against Fusarium solani. The EC50 values of C1K for antifungal activity were in the range of 358.6-745.1 ppm. Both C1K and mixtures of C1K and Comps strongly inhibited mycelium growth of F. solani after 2 and 4 days incubation. Mixtures of C1K and Comps had high antioxidant activity in terms of both DPPH radical scavenging activity and total antioxidant capacity. These results suggested that mixtures of C1K and Comps triggered mechanism for the enhancement of suppressive activity to the phytopathogen F. solani and antioxidant activities.
Abstract Adsorption kinetics and isotherms and the surface complexation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) and catechol at the α-alumina/electrolyte interface were investigated. The state of equilibrium for adsorption of 3,4-DHBA onto α-alumina surface at pH 5 was attained at 120 min, whereas it was 90 min for catechol, but at pH 10 the state of equilibrium for the both the systems was same (∼60 min). The pseudo-second-order kinetic equation of nonlinear form (Eq. (3) ) fits the experimental kinetic data significantly better than the linear form (Eq. (2) ) in the entire time duration. The adsorption density of 3,4-DHBA onto the α-alumina surfaces at pH 10 and at similar experimental conditions is equivalent to catechol. DRIFT spectra indicate that 3,4-DHBA forms both outer- and inner-sphere complexes and catechol forms bidentate mononuclear complex with the α-alumina surface.
Total antioxidant potential (TAP) is usually measured using photometric or fluorometric assays. Preliminary results of a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography--electrochemical detection assay are given. The method is based on the generation of hydroxyl radicals in a Fenton reaction and analysis of the product of their interaction with p-hydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid). The method is applied to estimate the TAP of dopamine. As a result, depending on the concentration, dopamine is pro- or antioxidant. The results are compared with TAP measurements using a standard photometric method.
The catalytic photo-oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid on TiO2 has been studied by in situ ATR-FTIR in flowing water and in flowing wet air/nitrogen gas. In flowing water it was difficult to observe photodegradation intermediates despite photocatalytic action during UV illumination. In the flowing wet air/nitrogen system carboxylic acids and carbonates were observed. It was shown that water plays an important role in the formation of oxidation active species. Oxygen shows a prominent role for carboxylic acid degradation, but the photogenerated hole plays the important role for the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ring cleavage.
Total antioxidant potential (TAP) is usually measured using photometric or fluorometric assays. Preliminary results of a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographyelectrochemical detection assay are given. The method is based on the generation of hydroxyl radicals in a Fenton reaction and analysis of the product of their interaction with p-hydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid). The method is applied to estimate the TAP of dopamine. As a result, depending on the concentration, dopamine is pro-or antioxidant. The results are compared with TAP measurements using a standard photometric method.
Free radicals (FRs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of many diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD) (1) . Among FRs, the most reactive is hydroxyl radical (2-4), which is able to interact with a number of organic compounds through addition, FR substitution, or electron transfer. Because of its high reactivity, it is short-lived and difficult to detect directly. However, FRs can be chromatographically analyzed after spin trapping (5) . OH radical attacks the benzene ring of an aromatic compound (spin trap), and hydroxylated products of this reaction are separated and detected. For instance, p-hydroxybenzoic acid (p-HBA) can be used as a spin trap (5) . The reaction product, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), may be separated using reversed-phase (RP) high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with photometry or, for more sensitivity, electrochemical detection (6) .
Among the large variety of environmental pollutants, aromatic compounds occupy an important place due to its toxicities and unusual stability. Catechol and its derivatives are important intermediates in the photo-degradation of benzene and its derivatives because OH radicals attack the aromatic ring before the latter is cleaved [4, 5] . The two hydroxyl groups of catechol and its derivatives lead to strong adsorption on TiO 2 , which may be a crucial factor for the cleavage of the aromatic ring [6] . Aliphatic carboxylic acids are subsequently formed after the opening of aromatic ring, which also bind to TiO 2 [7] . The acids are then further Abstract The catalytic photo-oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid on TiO 2 has been studied by in situ ATR-FTIR in flowing water and in flowing wet air/nitrogen gas. In flowing water it was difficult to observe photodegradation intermediates despite photocatalytic action during UV illumination. In the flowing wet air/nitrogen system carboxylic acids and carbonates were observed. It was shown that water plays an important role in the formation of oxidation active species. Oxygen shows a prominent role for carboxylic acid degradation, but the photogenerated hole plays the important role for the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ring cleavage. 
3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid shows strong absorption on TiO 2 , which provides the possibility for photodegradation under TiO 2 catalysis. Water and oxygen play important roles for the reaction rate as well as the relative rate of different reaction pathways, which is determined by the formation of reactive oxidation species. The photodegradation rate of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid increased with increasing the content of water vapor in air. Absence of oxygen decreased the photodegradation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid but increased the intermediate products formed on TiO 2 . ATR-FTIR provides detailed information about the time evolution of the photocatalytic surface during illumination.
In this study, a microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography (MEEKC) method was developed to analyze and detect 13 phenolic compounds (syringic acid, p-cumaric acid, vanillic acid, caffeic acid, gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, (+)-catechin, (-)-epigallocatechin, (-)-epicatechin gallate, (-)-epigallocatechin gallate, (-)-epicatechin, and (-)-gallocatechin), which are present in many plant-derived foods. The effects of cosurfactant, organic modifier, and oil were examined in order to optimize the separation of these phenolic compounds. The amounts of cosurfactant (cyclohexanol) and organic modifier (acetonitrile) were determined as the major influence on the separation selectivity, while the type of oil partially affected the separation resolution of the phenolic compounds. A highly efficient MEEKC separation method was achieved within 14 min by using a microemulsion solution of pH 2.0 containing 2.89% w/v SDS, 1.36% w/v heptane, 7.66% w/v cyclohexanol, and 2% w/v ACN. Furthermore, the present work could demonstrate that the nature of the oil phase has a significant influence on the separation selectivity of phenolic compounds.
The distribution of methionine adenosyltransferase (MAT) in the CNS of the rat was studied by use of a rapid, sensitive and specific radiochemical method. The S-adenosyl-[methyl-14C]L-methionine ([14C]SAM) generated by adenosyl transfer from ATP to [methyl-14C]L-methionine is quantitated by use of a SAM-consuming transmethylation reaction. Catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT), prepared from rat liver, transfers the methyl-14C group of SAM to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The 14C-labelled methylation products, vanillic acid and isovanillic acid, are separated from unreacted methionine by solvent extraction and quantitated by liquid scintillation counting. Compared to other methods of MAT determination, which include separation of generated SAM from methionine by ion-exchange chromatography, the assay described exhibited the same high degree of specificity and sensitivity but proved to be less time consuming. MAT activity was found to be uniformly distributed between various brain regions and the pituitary gland of adult male rats. In the pineal gland the enzyme activity is about tenfold higher.
Objective To study the active parts of the Scutellaria barbata D.Don and isolate and identify the chemical constituents from active parts.Methods The solvent extraction together with silica gel column chromatography were used for isolation of chemical constituents.Physicochemical characters and spectroscopic evidence were employed for the structural identification.Results Eight compounds were isolated,and identified as p-hydroxybenzaldehyde(1),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2),p-hydroxyacetophenone(3),5,7,4′-trihydroxy-8-methoxyflavone(4),5,7,4′-trihydroxy-6-methoxyflavone(5),5,7,4′-trihydroxyflavone(6),5,4′-dihydroxy-6,7,3′,5′-tetramethoxyflavone(7),5-hydroxy-4′-methoxyflavone-7-O-α-L-rhamnosyl-(1→6)-β-D-glucopyranoside(8),respectively.Conclusion Compound 7,8 are isolated from Scutellaria barbata D.Don for the first time.
The pseudo-first-order loss of coniferyl aldehyde, adsorbed on silicon dioxide particles, upon heterogeneous ozonolysis was monitored at various ozone mixing ratios in the absence and presence of simulated sunlight. For the first time we investigated the effect of light on the heterogeneous ozonolysis of coniferyl aldehyde adsorbed on silica particles. We found that UV-VIS light (λ>300 nm) does not impact the degradation of coniferyl aldehyde by ozone but induces an additional, slow photolysis of the aldehyde with a photolytic rate constant of ~10(-5) s(-1). In both cases, that is, in presence and/or absence of light, the heterogeneous ozonation kinetics are well described by an immediate gas-surface reaction formalism with light-independent rate constants of k(2nd)=(7.2±0.9)×10(-19) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1) and (7.6±1.7)×10(-19) cm(3) molec(-1) s(-1) in the absence and presence of light, respectively. Five oxidation products: glycolic acid, oxalic acid, vanillin, vanillic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were identified and confirmed by their corresponding standards. Vanillin and vanillic acid absorb light in the region λ>300 nm and thus can further participate in the direct and indirect photolysis processes of atmospheric relevance. A reaction mechanism is proposed in order to elucidate the ozonolysis reaction and to explain the reaction products.
Abstract A reversed-phase high performance chromatographic method for simultaneous determination of 14 phenolic compounds in native red wines was developed in this study. The identified compounds contained gallic acid, (+)-catechin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, chlorogenic acid, (−)-epicatechin, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, syringic acid, caffeic acid, p-coumaric acid, rutin, resveratrol, myricetin, quercetin and kaempferol. The method includes liquid–liquid extraction of acidic pH with ethylacetate. The analysis used a Zorbax Eclipse XDB-C18 column (5 μm, 4.6 mm × 250 mm). The chromatographic separation of these compounds performed in a single run by using the mobile phase gradient elution of methanol water mixture (% 0.2 formic acid) at room temperature, with flow rate at 1 mL/min. Detection was carried out by UV–vis and fluorescence detector. Each analysis required an equilibration period of 10 min and a run time of 14 min for completion. The optimized chromatographic method was carefully validated for precision and accuracy. Our findings indicated that the developed HPLC method was precise, accurate, specific and sensitive for simultaneous determination of phenolic compounds. Consequently, the described method was applied to the analysis of six wines from Malatya and Elazig. Gallic acid was dominant phenolic acid in red wines. (+)-catechin, (−)-epicatechin and p-coumaric acid were the next most abundant phenolics. The highest level of trans-resveratrol among the red wines was found Buzbagi (Bogazkere–Okuzgozu). The red wines were analyzed for total polyphenol content (TP) by Folin–Ciocalteu (FC) method, using gallic acid as standard. Antioxidant activities (AA) of the red wines were measured using the DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) assay. There was a very high correlation between AA and TP in all of the wines tested.
This study aimed to identify the bioactive compounds and evaluate the anti-cold-stress function of the sorghum distillery residue (SDR) using tilapia as an alternative animal model. The highest contents of water-soluble bioactive compounds in SDR were polyphenols, followed by tannins, anthocyanins, and flavonoids. SDR was extracted with double-distilled water, 95% ethanol, and ethyl acetate, separately. The ethanol extract (SDR–E) yielded the highest polyphenol content [15.03 mg/g of SDR dry weight (dw)], of which the EC50 value of R,R-diphenyl-β-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging efficiency was 0.56 ± 0.04 mg/mL. The SDR–E suppressed the oxidation of low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) more efficiently than that of other extracts. Tilapia fed a diet containing 3.6% SDR–E decreased accumulative mortality during cold stress, of 46.2%. The accumulative morality of the control was 92.9%. The phenolic acids identified in SDR included gallic acid (0.36 ± 0.08 mg/g of SDR dw), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (0.16 ...
In the present study phytochemical investigation of the methanol extract of the stem bark of Horsfieldia superba led to the isolation of twenty compounds (1-20), of which three (1-3) were new. However, compounds 2 and 3 were previously reported as synthetic α, β-lactones. The compounds were characterized as (-)-3,4′,7-trihydroxy-3′-methoxyflavan (1), (-)-5,6-dihydro-6-undecyl-2H-pyran-2-one (2), and (-)-5,6-dihydro-6-tridecyl-2H-pyran-2-one (3). Seventeen other known compounds were also isolated and identified as (-)-viridiflorol (4), hexacosanoic acid (5), β-sitosterol (6), methyl 2,4-dihydroxy-6-methylbenzoate (methylorsellinate) (7), methyl 2,4-dihydroxy-3,6-dimethylbenzoate (8), (-)-4′-hydroxy-7-methoxyflavan (9), (-)-4′,7-dihydroxyflavan (10), (-)-4′,7-dihydroxy-3′-methoxyflavan (11), (+)-3,4′,7-trihydroxyflavan (12), (-)-catechin (13), (-)-epicatechin (14), (-)-7-hydroxy-3′,4′-methylenedioxyflavan (15), 2′,3,4-trihydroxy-4′-methoxydihydrochalcone (16), 3′,4′,7-trihydroxyflavone (17), (+)-4′-hydroxy-7-methoxyflavanone (18), hexadecanoic acid (palmitic acid) (19) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (20). The structures of the compounds were fully characterized by various physical methods (melting point, optical rotation), spectral (UV, IR, ID and 2D NMR) and mass spectrometric techniques. In vitro assay of compounds 2 and 3 demonstrated moderate cytotoxic activities against human prostate (PC-3), colon (HCT-116) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cells, while the chloroform and ethyl acetate fractions of H. superba were found to exhibit moderate AChE inhibitory activity (IC50 72 and 60 μg/mL).
A wide variety of compounds are recorded in potato tubers: anthocyanins, carotenoids, glycoalcaloids, phenolic compounds, amino acids, etc. (TomoskoziFarkas et al., 2014; El-Kosasy et al., 2015; Seal, 2016) . The main phenolic acids present in potato tubers are derivatives of hydroxycinnamic acid and hydroxybenzoic acid (Brazinskiene et al., 2014) . Derivative of hydroxycinnamic acid -chlorogenic acid and its isomers -account for up to 90% or more of the total content of phenolic compounds found in potato tubers; additionally small amounts of caffeic, ferulic and coumaric acids are found (Ramamurthy et al., 1992; Friedman, Jurgens, 2000; Mattila, Hellström, 2007; Im et al., 2008; ElKosasy et al., 2015) . Small quantities of hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives protocatechuic (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), gallic, cinnamic and vanillic acids have been found in potatoes (Lewis et al., 1998; Mattila, Hellström, 2007; Mader et al., 2009) . Small amounts of flavonoids: naringenin, eriodictyol, catechin, epicatechin (Lewis et al., 1998) , as well as rutin (André et al., 2009) were also recorded in potato tubers. Conventional farming conditions. In the autumn, the field was sprayed with a herbicide Kernel 480 SL 3 l ha -1 (a.i. glyphosate 480 g l -1 ). Then the soil was deeply ploughed. In the spring, the field was cultivated twice, and then the soil was cultivated with a rotary cultivator to a depth of 0.25 m. The field was furrowed before the potato planting; potatoes were planted by hand. Potatoes were fertilized with a universal complex fertilizer Kemira Cropcare N 10 P 10 K 20 , at planting time 80 kg ha -1 of nitrogen (N), 80 kg ha -1 of P 2 O 5 and 160 kg ha -1 of K 2 O. After planting, the interrows were hilled up twice using a rotary hiller. When potatoes grew up to 10 cm, the field was sprayed with a herbicide mixture Titus 50 g ha -1
(a.i. rimsulfuron 250 g kg -1 ) with Mistral 500 g ha -1 (a.i. metribuzin 700 g kg -1 ). After that the potatoes were twice earthed up. At inflorescence formation and flowering period, the plants were sprayed with a fungicide Acrobat Plus 2 kg ha -1 (a.i. dimethomorph 90 g kg -1 and mancozeb 600 g kg -1 ) in combination with an insecticide Proteus OD 0.7 l ha -1 (a.i. thiacloprid 100 g l -1 and deltamethrin 10 g l -1 ). After two weeks, a fungicide Ridomil Gold 2.5 kg ha -1 (a.i. metalaxyl-M 40 g kg -1 and mancozeb 640 g kg -1 ) in combination with an insecticide Proteus OD 0.7 l ha -1 were used. Two weeks before the harvest, the potato field was sprayed with the fungicide Shirlan 500 SC 0.4 l ha -1 (a.i. fluazinam 500 g l -1 ). Chemicals. Standards of fifteen compounds were used in the chromatographic analysis: chlorogenic acid, (−)-epicatechin, DL-catechin, gallic acid, eriodictyol (ChromaDex, USA), caffeic acid (Labor dr. Ehrenstrofer-Schafers, Germany), rutin trihydrate (HWI Analytik GmbH, Germany), vanillic acid, naringenin, trans-cinnamic acid, trans-p-coumaric acid, trans-ferulic acid, L-tryptophan, L-tyrosine and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich Production GmbH, Switzerland).
High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. The analysis was carried out using a chromatograph Waters 2695 (Waters, USA). For separation of active compounds 4.6 × 250 mm, 5 µm ACE C18 column (Advanced Chromatographic Technologies, Scotland) was used, during the analysis it was kept at an external Waters temperature control module, maintaining 25°C temperature. During the analysis, 10 µm of the test solution were injected. The mobile phase flow rate was 1 ml min -1 . The following gradient system was used: solvent A -0.5% acetic acid in water, solvent B -methanol; 0 min -95% A and 5% B, 40 min -40% A and 60% B, 41 min -10% A and 90% B, 55 min -10% A and 90% B, 56 min -95% A and 5% B. The separated active compounds were analyzed using photodiode array detector Waters 996 PDA (Waters, USA) at a wavelength ensuring their maximum absorption: chlorogenic acid -325 nm, epicatechin -277 nm, catechin -277 nm, gallic acid -269 nm, eriodictyol -286, caffeic acid -323 nm, rutin -254 nm, vanillic acid -258 nm, naringenin -288 nm, cinnamic acid -275 nm, coumaric acid -309 nm, ferulic acid -322 nm, tryptophan -277 nm, tyrosine -273 nm, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid -257 nm. The data were collected and analyzed using a chromatographic manager system Waters Millennium 2000 (Waters, USA).
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA) is a simple phenolic acid. It is found in a large variety of edible plants and possesses various pharmacological activities. This article aims to review the modern trends in phytochemical isolation and extraction of PCA from plants and other natural resources. Moreover, this article also encompasses pharmacological and biological activities of PCA. It is well known to have anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-hyperglycemia, antibacterial, anticancer, anti-ageing, anti-athro- genic, anti-tumoral, anti-asthma, antiulcer, antispasmodic and neurological properties. Abbreviations: AHR - hyper-responsiveness, AKT - protein kinase B, BCCAO - bilateral common carotid artery occlusion, BrdU - bromodeoxyuridine, CA - chlorogenic acid, CC R2 - chemokine receptor type 2, COMT - catechol-O-methyl transferase, CP - Chinese quince polyphenols, Cy3G - cyanidin 3-O-β-D-glu- copyranoside, CyG - cyanidin glucosides, DA - dopamine, DADS - diallyldisulfide, DHBA - 3,4-dihydroxy- benzoic acid, DG - D-galactose, DPPH - 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl, FBS - fetal bovine serum, FRAP - ferric reducing ability of plasma, GSH - glutathione, H2O2 - hydrogen peroxide, hADSCs - human adipose tis- sue-derived stromal cells, HBMEC - human brain microvascular endothelial cell line, IL-1β - interleukin-1β, I/R - intestinal ischemia/reperfusion, JNK - c-Jun N-terminal kinase, LDH - lactate dehydrogenase, LT - lute- olin, MAPK - mitogen-activated protein kinase, MIC - minimal inhibitory concentration, MIPS - molecular- ly imprinted polymer microspheres, MMP-2 - matrix metalloproteinase-2, MTT - (4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)- 2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide, Na4P2O7 - tetrasodium pyrophosphate, NSC - neural stem cells, OVA - ovalbumin, PCA - protocatechuic acid, PD - Parkinsonis disease, ROS - reactive oxygen species, SC-CO2 - supercritical carbon dioxide, t-BHP - tert-butyl hydroperoxide, TCDD - 2,3,7,8-tetracholorodibenzo-p-dioxin, TH - tyrosine hydroxylase, TNF-α - tumor necrosis factor α TPA - 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, VA - vanillic acid
SUMMARY: After growth of representatives of eight genera in the order Actinomycetales and two others related taxonomically to Mycobacterium under iron-deficient conditions, the following compounds were found in the media: salicylic and phenylacetic acids, but no mycobactin, with Thermoactinomyces vulgaris; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with Corynebacterium equi, Mycococcus sp., Nocardia opaca and Streptosporangium rubrum; a conjugate of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were also found with S. rubrum. Unidentified compounds giving a positive reaction to FeCl3 were found after growth of Dactylosporangium thailandensis and Propionibacterium shermanii. No iron-binding compounds were detected with Actinoplanes phillippinensis, Micromonospora sp. and Streptomyces albus.
The effects of several aromatic compounds on tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF)-induced cytotoxicity in murine fibroblast L929 cells were studied. Those phenolics which bear the O -dihydroxy aromatic structure (catechols), i.e. caffeic acid, catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, dopamine and noradrenaline effectively inhibited TNF-induced cytotoxicity in a concentration dependent manner. Related compounds (cinnamic acid, 3,4-dimethoxycinnamic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, ferulic acid, 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid and p -hydroxybenzoic acid) which lack the catecholic functional group failed to protect cells from TNF cytotoxicity. All concentrations of catechols which effectively inhibited the TNF-induced cytotoxicity were also protective as a post treatment, suggesting an effect at some step(s) in the TNF-signal transduction pathway following receptor activation. © 1997 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
P-coumaric acid (HCA), 2,4-dichlorophenol (DCP) and resorcionol acted as cofactors for IAA-oxidase isolated from young wheat plants. Ferulic acid (FA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) induced a lag phase prior to IAA oxidation. HCA, FA (0.2-1 mg ml-1) and DCP (0.03-1 mg ml-1) strongly inhibited wheat coleoptile section growth. DHBA (0.01-1 mg ml-1) slightly stimulated it and resorcinol was without effect. HCA inhibited IAA-induced growth of coleoptile sections and FA stimulated it at low IAA levels and inhibited it at higher ones. DHBA, DCP and resorcinol did not affect IAA-induced growth of coleoptile sections.
Eight compounds were isolated from the roots of Calophyllum membranaceum Gardn using silica gel column chromatography and sephadex LH-20 chromatography,et al.Their chemical compounds were determined to be Friedelin(Ⅰ),Canophyllol(Ⅱ),Epi-friedelinol(Ⅲ),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅳ),Amentoflavone(Ⅴ),7-dihydroxycoumarin(Ⅵ),Marmesinin(Ⅶ),Nodakenetin(Ⅷ) on the basis of comprehensive spectroscopic analysis and chemical method.Compounds Ⅵ,Ⅶ and Ⅷ were firstly isolated from this plant.
The worldwide increase in cancer mortality demands a practical and effective chemopreventive approach to this problem. Using animal bioassay, the authors demonstrated protocatechuic acid (PCA, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), a simple and antioxidative phenolic acid present in fruits, vegetables, and nuts, to be an efficacious agent in reducing the carcinogenic action of 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide in oral cavity, N-methyl-N-nitrosourea in glandular stomach, azoxymethane in colon, and diethylnitrosamine in liver. PCA exerts its chemopreventive action partly through inhibition of cell proliferation induced by carcinogens in the target organs. The prospect of this agent as chemopreventive against human cancer warrants a thorough investigation, such as dose-dependent efficacy and its potential toxicity at an effective dose level in other species of animals. Considering its promising anticarcinogenic potency, proliferation biomarkers, including tissue and blood polyamine levels, might eventually be useful in assessing the possible role of PCA intake in high risk populations for cancers of these organs.
A commercially available TiO$\sb2$ powder (Degussa P-25) has been used to prepare thin particulate films on optically transparent SnO$\sb2$ conducting glass electrodes. The oxidation potentials of Resorcinol (RSRCL), 4-Chlororesorcinol (4-CR), 4,6-Dichlororesorcinol (4,6-DCR), Catechol (CC), 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), and 1,2,4-benzenetriol (1,2,4-THB) in 0.5M KCl were measured. The effect of adsorption on the oxidation potentials of the above-mentioned compounds on TiO$\sb2$ electrodes, were examined by cyclic voltammetry under various conditions. The results show different oxidation potentials vs. SCE for adsorbed versus non-adsorbed species. The scan rate dependencies of the peak currents indicate, that the lower oxidation potential may be assigned to adsorbed reactants while the one at higher potential corresponds to diffusion-controlled oxidation of material from solution. This was also confirmed by the dependence of peak current on the concentration for selected compounds. Illumination causes no significant change in the measured oxidation potentials. However, photocurrent was observed under illumination, indicating the photoactivity of TiO$\sb2.$ These studies tend to indicate that associating the oxidation of such compounds to a single oxidation potential does not adequately describe the situation. Depending on the type of working electrode used, an important distinction is to be made between adsorbed and dissolved species.
The interaction of synthetic DOPA melanin (DM) and its precursors (catechols and phenols) with 4-methoxybenzenediazonium tetrafluoroborate (4-MeO-PhN 2 BF 4 ) has been studied using EPR spectroscopy and the spin-trapping technique. We found that DM, catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, and 6-hydroxydopamine all react with 4-MeO-PhN 2 + through a one-electron-transfer process which gives rise to an aryl radical (4-MeO-Ph . ) derived from the diazonium compound and to radicals from melanin and from the catechol(amine)s. The formation of aryl radicals is an autocatalytic process. To explain the autocatalysis, we postulate a mechanism in which the key step is the formation of o-quinones
The enzymatically catalyzed formation of 4-hydroxyproline plays a key role in the intracellular biosynthesis of collagen, since a critical number of 4-hydroxyprolyl residues is required for synthesis and secretion of triple-helical procollagen molecules under physiologic conditions. The enzyme catalyzing the conversion of prolyl residues to 4-hydroxyproline, prolyl 4-hydroxylase, requires ferrous ion, alpha-ketoglutarate, and ascorbate for its activity. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid has been known to act as potent competitive inhibitor of purified prolyl 4-hydroxylase with respect to one or several of the cofactors or cosubstrates of the enzyme. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, however, is a poor inhibitor of prolyl hydroxylation in intact cells, probably due to its polarity not allowing it to enter the cells. In this study, several hydrophobic modifications of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were tested in human skin fibroblast cultures for their efficacy to inhibit the synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline. The results indicated that the ethyl ester of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was an efficient inhibitor of prolyl hydroxylation in fibroblast cultures, with Ki of approximately 0.4 mM. Ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate had little, if any, effect on the hydroxylation of lysyl residues, and it did not affect total protein synthesis or DNA replication in these cells. To test the hypothesis that ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate might serve as a potential antifibrotic agent, its efficacy in inhibiting prolyl hydroxylation in scleroderma fibroblasts was also tested. The results indicated that the synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline in scleroderma cell cultures was similarly reduced by ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate. Thus, structural analogs of the cofactors or cosubstrates of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, such as ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate tested here or its further modifications, may serve as inhibitors of posttranslational hydroxylation of prolyl residues also in vivo. These compounds could potentially provide a novel means of reducing collagen deposition in tissues in fibrotic diseases, such as scleroderma.
Binding affinities to lactoperoxidase (LPO) of a homologous series of substituted catechol(amine)s [such as catechol, 4-methylcatechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)propionic acid; dopamine, noradrenaline, adrenaline; L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine] were studied by UV-visible spectroscopy and docking simulations. Dissociation constant (Kd) values were calculated by direct fitting of the experimental data and fall in a range of 3-95 mM. Thermodynamic parameters are comparable with those reported for the interaction of LPO with p-substituted phenols, suggesting a similar general mode of binding. Furthermore, the relative contributions to binding energy, described by the unimolecular constant Ku, show that interaction between protein and ligands originates from a relatively large number of groups. Docking and molecular dynamics simulations, in agreement with experimental evidence, predict that the substrate is localized into the access channel in the vicinity of heme distal pocket. This channel is characterized by a hydrophobic patch (six Phe residues) and by a charged contribution (two Glu and one His residues). All of the substrates, except caffeic acid, may approach the protein active site. Positively charged Arg372 acts as a gate above the heme distal pocket and seems to address substrate orientation in relation to the side-chain terminal group.
In order to explore the application prospects of Daphniphyllum calycinum in controlling agricultural disease,ten compounds were isolated from acetic ether-soluble fraction of D.calycinum by column chromatography and recrystallization,and three plant pathogens(Rhizoctonia solani,Sclerotium rolfsii,Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.cubense) were used to screen antifungal activity of the compounds.The structure of ten compounds were identified as p-methoxybenzoic acid(1),p-hydroxybenzaldehyde(2),5,7-dihydroxychromone(3),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(4),trans-p-hydroxylcinnamic acid(5),5,7,4′-trihydroxy-3′-methoxyflavone(6),kaempferol(7),β-daucosterol(8),luteolin(9) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(10) by NMR.The antifungal activities of nine compounds against the three plant pathogens were tested.At the concentration of 100 mg/L,compound 3,6,7 and 10 exhibited antifungal activity against R.solani,with inhibitory rates of 58.1%,74.3%,85.0% and 79.5%,respectively;compound 6 and 7 showed potential antifungal activity against S.rolfsii,with inhibitory rates of 66.2% and 72.5%,respectively;compound 6 had weak antifungal activity against F.oxysporum,with inhibitory rate of 54.5%.Compound 1-7,9-10 were obtained from the fruit of D.calycinum for the first time.
After growth of representatives of eight genera in the order Actinomycetales and two others related taxonomically to Mycobacterium under iron-deficient conditions, the following compounds were found in the media : salicylic and phenylacetic acids, but no mycobactin, with Thermoactinomyces vulgaris; 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid with Corynebacterium equi, Mycococcus sp., Nocardia opaca and Streptosporangium rubrum ; a conjugate of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were also found with S. rubrum. Unidentified compounds giving a positive reaction to FeCl, were found after growth of Dactylosporangium thailandensis and Propionibacterium shermanii. No iron-binding compounds were detected with Actinoplanes phillippinensis, Micromonospora sp. and Streptomyces albus.
Electrochemical oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) in the presence of 1,3-dimethylbarbituric acid (2) and 1,3-diethyl-2-thiobarbituric acid (3) as nucleophiles in aqueous solution has been studied using cyclic voltammetry and controlled-potential coulometry. The results indicate that 1 via Michael reaction under electro-decarboxylation reaction converts to benzofuro[2,3-d]pyrimidine derivatives (6a, 6b). The electrochemical synthesis of 6a, 6b has been successfully performed in an undivided cell in good yields and purity.
Objective To explore chemical component of Neonauclea griffithill merr. To search components of new medicine and lead compounds. Methods Study compounds of Neonauclea griffithill by modern separation and 1H-13CNMR、EIMS etc methods. Results Twenty-three compounds are found from it's limbs. Four compounds are identified. They are benzoylamine,β-phenylpropeneamide,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,scopoletin. Conclusions They are found from Neonauclea is first.
Epilobium angustifolium has been traditionally used to treat of a number of diseases; however, not much is known regarding its effect on innate immune cells. In this study, we report that extracts of E. angustifolium activated functional responses in neutrophils and monocyte/macrophages. Activity-guided fractionation, followed by mass spectroscopy and NMR analysis, resulted in the identification of oenothein B as the primary component responsible for phagocyte activation. Oenothein B, a dimeric hydrolysable tannin, dose-dependently induced a number of phagocyte functions in vitro, including intracellular Ca2+ flux, production of reactive oxygen species, chemotaxis, NF-κB activation, and proinflammatory cytokine production. Furthermore, oenothein B was active in vivo, inducing keratinocyte chemoattractant production and neutrophil recruitment to the peritoneum after intraperitoneal administration. Biological activity required the full oenothein B structure, as substructures of oenothein B (pyrocatechol, gallic acid, pyrogallol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were all inactive. The ability of oenothein B to modulate phagocyte functions in vitro and in vivo suggests that this compound is responsible for at least part of the therapeutic properties of E. angustifolium extracts.
AIM OF THE STUDY ::: Still little is known about the cellular mechanisms that contribute to the attenuated proliferation of aortic smooth muscle cells under the influence of the oxidative stress factors such as homocysteine (Hcy). Thus, we aimed to evaluate whether Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge (Labiatae), a Chinese medicinal herb widely used in folk medicine for therapy of variety of human cardiovascular disorders would modulate this Hcy promoted growth effect in model animal aortic cells system. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: The Salvia miltiorrhiza roots aqueous extract (SMAE) containing 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl lactic acid and salvianolic acid B, as confirmed by narrow-bore HPLC analyses with binary gradient elution was used in variable concentrations for the treatment of the rat aortic smooth muscle A10 cells under Hcy stimulation. Two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) coupled with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry was applied for the elucidation of protein changes characterizing the response of the rat A10 cells into the Hcy-induced oxidative stress. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: This study showed that a low dose (0.015 mg/mL) of the SMAE significantly inhibited growth (>60%, p<0.05) of the Hcy stimulated rat A10 cells. In addition, concentration of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) obviously decreased in the rat A10 cells after its incubation with SMAE in terms of catalase increasing activity. Next, marked down-regulation of protein kinase C beta-1 (PKC beta-1) and phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase (p-MAPK) expression suggest that observed inhibitory effect of the polyphenol-rich SMAE on the Hcy-induced growth of rat A10 cells was realized via the PKC/p44/42 MAPK-dependent pathway. The intensity changes of 10 protein spots in response of the rat A10 cells to the Hcy-induced oxidative damage as alpha-4-tropomyosin, vimentin, F1F0-ATP synthase (beta subunit), glucose regulated protein 75 (GRP75), actin (fragment), prohibitin, capping protein, plakoglobin, endoplasmic reticulum protein (ERp29), and peptidylprolyl isomerase A (PPIase A), were detected with statistical significance (p<0.05). Meanwhile, it was showed that used here SMAE resist carbonylation of specific cytoskeleton and chaperone proteins as vimentin, alpha-4-tropomyosin and GRP75, respectively, leading to phenotype transformations in the rat A10 cells. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: These data suggest that applied here SMAE exerts its protective effect through circulating ROS suppression and subsequent modulation of protein carbonylation in rat aortic smooth muscle A10 cells. Redox-proteomics protocol highlighted in this study may be applicable in facilitating the assessing potential novel molecular therapeutic targets to reduce cardiovascular risk related with elevated Hcy levels in various human populations and elucidating new mechanisms through which protein functions can be regulated by the redox status with the use of naturally occurring antioxidants.
The effect of different ions which are constituents of technical lignin sulfonates (LS) on chemo-enzymatic graft co-polymerization was determined. The application of the iron chelator desferrioxamine in the initial reaction mixture revealed that iron impurities of LS which catalyzed a Fenton-like reaction were crucial for the initiation of grafting, whereas calcium or chloride ions showed no such effect. The addition of laccase (ATCC 11235) to the reaction mixture which contained desferrioxamine caused a significantly higher yield compared to the control; this indicates a crucial effect of laccase with regard to the initiation of copolymerization. The involvement of laccase in the initiation of the graft copolymerization was additionally confirmed by the application of low molecular weight phenolics instead of LS. In the presence of the lignin-like substrates, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and guaiacol, the rate of the decomposition of t-butylhydroperoxide was significantly enhanced by laccase. It can be assumed that the enzymatically generated phenoxy radicals mediate the production of oxygen centered radicals (alkoxy or peroxy) which initiate grafting.
Electrochemical oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1a) has been studied in the presence of 4-hydroxy-1-methyl-2(1H)-quinolone (3) as a nucleophile in aqueous solution using cyclic voltammetry and controlled-potential coulometry. The results indicate that 1a via a 1,4-(Michael) addition reaction under electro-decarboxylation reaction converts to benzofuran (or isochromeno[4,3-c]quinoline) derivative (6a). The electrochemical synthesis of 6a has been successfully performed in an undivided cell in good yield and purity. The oxidation mechanism was deduced from voltammetric data and by coulometry at controlled-potential. The product has been characterized after purification by IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR and MS.
The neuroprotective effect of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) isolated from Smilacis chinae rhizome against Abeta (25-35)-induced neurotoxicity on cultured rat cortical neurons was found in this study. The protective effect of 3,4-DHBA against Abeta (25-35)-induced neuronal cell death was investigated by measuring cell viability via a 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and Hoechst 33342 staining. 3,4-DHBA (1 and 10 microM) concentration-dependently inhibited 10 microM Abeta (25-35)-induced neuronal apoptotic death. 3,4-DHBA (1 and 10 microM) inhibited 10 microM Abeta (25-35)-induced elevation of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](c)), which was measured by a fluorescent dye, Fluo-4 AM. 3,4-DHBA also inhibited glutamate release into medium, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and caspase-3 activation, which were induced by 10 microM Abeta (25-35). These results suggest that 3,4-DHBA prevents Abeta (25-35)-induced neuronal cell damage by interfering with the increase of [Ca(2+)](c), and then by inhibiting glutamate release, generation of ROS and caspase-3 activity.
ABSTRACT Origanum species are significant aromatic and medicinal plants used in food and pharmaceutical industries. Isolation of bioactive compounds was executed on n-butanol extract to yield the compounds responsible for the activities. Tricosan-1-ol (1), (8E,16E)-tetracosa-8,16-diene-1,24-diol (2), azepan-2-one (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4), apigenin (5), eriodictyol (6), globoidnan-A (7), luteolin (8), rosmarinic acid (9), apigenin-7-O-glucuronide (10), and vicenin-2 (11) were isolated by chromatographic methods (column chromatography and semi-preparative High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and structures were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic techniques including 1D/2D nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and Liquid chromatography/Time-of-flight/Mass spectrometry (LC-TOF/MS). The isolated compounds and extracts were applied for antioxidant assays including 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH•) scavenging, 2,2’-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) (ABTS•+) scavenging, reducing power, and cuprac techniques. 3,4-Dihydroxy benzoic acid (4), eriodictyol (6), luteolin (8), and rosmarinic acid (9) revealed the considerable antioxidant activities.
Origanum species are significant aromatic and medicinal plants used in food and pharmaceutical industries. Isolation of bioactive compounds was executed on n-butanol extract to yield the compounds responsible for the activities. Tricosan-1-ol (1), (8E,16E)-tetracosa-8,16-diene-1,24-diol (2), azepan-2-one (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4), apigenin (5), eriodictyol (6), globoidnan-A (7), luteolin (8), rosmarinic acid (9), apigenin-7-O-glucuronide (10), and vicenin-2 (11) were isolated by chromatographic methods (column chromatography and semi-preparative High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and structures were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic techniques including 1D/2D nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and Liquid chromatography/Time-of-flight/Mass spectrometry (LC-TOF/MS). The isolated compounds and extracts were applied for antioxidant assays including 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH • ) scavenging, 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) (ABTS •+ ) scavenging, reducing power, and cuprac techniques. 3,4-Dihydroxy benzoic acid (4), eriodictyol (6), luteolin (8), and rosmarinic acid (9) revealed the considerable antioxidant activities.
Chemical and electrochemical oxidation of different catechols were carried out in the presence of N,N′-dibenzylethylenediamine (DBEDA) in a phosphate buffer/acetonitrile solution for the synthesis of different new dibenzyltetrahydroquinoxalinedione derivatives. The oxidation of catechol (1a), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1e), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1d) led to the same product, probably due to the decarboxylation reaction of intermediates. An oxidative decarboxylation reaction of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1d) has been reported before, while an unexpected oxidative decarboxylation reaction of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1e) in the presence of DBEDA is reported for the first time.
The partition behavior of ethyl gallate (EG), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (DHBEE), and p-hydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (PHBEE) in different systems was investigated using ultrafiltration and dialysis techniques. The proportion of solute solubilized by micelles or oil in surfactant solution and biphasic water−oil systems, respectively, was determined directly. To study the partition in oil-in-water (O/W) emulsions, a mathematical model is presented which differentiates between the solubilization capacity of oil, surfactant, and aqueous phase. In contrast to previous studies, this model focuses on the equilibrium between oil and surfactant in the lipid phase of emulsions. The mutual influence of oil and surfactant determining the solubilization equilibrium is described by nonlinear functions derived from the experimental data. The solubilization capacities of oil and surfactant in O/W emulsions differed markedly from the surfactant solutions and biphasic water−oil systems. According to their pol...
Background and the purpose of the study: The rhizomes of Drynaria quercifolia have antibacterial properties and are used traditionally for the treatment of cough, tuberculosis and typhoid fever. In the present study an attempt was made to isolate microbiologically active constituents from the rhizome of D. quercifolia and to determine their antibacterial and toxicological effects. Methods: Bioassay-guided investigations was employed for isolation of the active constitute of the rhizome of Drynaria quercifolia J. Smith. Disc diffusion technique and serial tube dilution technique were used to determine in vitro antibacterial activity and MIC, respectively. Sub-acute toxicities (body weight, hematological, biochemical and histopathological) were studied in albino mice upon 14 days treatment. Result and major conclusion: Bioassay-guided investigations led to isolation of 3,4dihydroxybenzoic acid whose in vitro antibacterial activity, minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and sub-acute toxicities were studied. The 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid showed significant antibacterial activity against four Gram-positive and six Gram-negative bacteria. The MIC values of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid against these bacteria ranged from 8 to 64 µg/mL. In sub-acute toxicities studies 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid showed no significant effect in comparison to that of control group. In addition, acetyl lupeol was isolated from rhizome of this plant whose in vitro antibacterial activity was insignificant. Isolation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and acetyl lupeol are the first report from this plant.
The effect of aspirin on dopaminergic neuronal damage induced by in vivo infusion of 1-methyl-4-phenylpiridinium iodide (MPP(+)) and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was studied in rats, using microdialysis. Rat striata were perfused with 1 mM MPP(+) or 6-OHDA for 10 min, causing peak levels of dopamine (DA) in the dialytic fluid, after 40 min. After 24 h, 1 mM MPP(+) was perfused again for 10 min and DA levels measured in the dialytic fluid, as an index of neuronal cell integrity. Pretreatment with Aspidol (lysine acetylsalicylate), 180 mg/kg i.p., 1 h before MPP(+) or 6-OHDA perfusion, did not modify DA extracellular output, on day 1, but restored MPP(+)-induced DA release on day 2, indicating a neuroprotective effect of Aspidol. Conversion of 0.5 mM 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) was measured as an index of reactive oxygen species (ROS). 6-OHDA, but not MPP(+), significantly enhanced 3,4-DHBA levels in the perfusion fluid. Aspidol (180 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced 6-OHDA-dependent increase of 3,4-DHBA levels. Meloxicam (50 mg/kg, i.p.), a specific cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, was ineffective against both neurotoxins. These data suggest that the protective effect of aspirin is due to different mechanisms of action according to the neurotoxin used, and it is independent from COX-2 inhibition.
Abstract Tyrosinase can catalyze the oxidation of o -diphenols to o -quinones. In this paper, some o -diphenols were used as mushroom tyrosinase substrates to study the catalyzed specificity of the enzyme. The enzyme kinetic analysis of substrate specificities and the substrate analogues towards mushroom tyrosinase has been investigated. Taking l -3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine ( I ), 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid ( II ), 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid ( III ) and 1,2,4-benzenetriol ( IV ) as substrates, the results of specificity studies showed that the oxidation reaction of tested o -diphenols by mushroom tyrosinase followed Michaelis–Menten kinetics. The Michaelis–Menten constants for these four substrates were determined to be 0.615, 1.238, 0.331 and 1.886 mM, respectively. The values of V m / K m , which denotes the affinity of the enzyme to the substrate, were determined and compared, and the results showed that the affinity of the enzyme to these substrates followed the order: compound IV > III > I > II . Furthermore, mushroom tyrosinase cannot catalyze the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzonitrile ( a ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde ( b ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( c ) and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( d ). On the contrary, compounds a , b and c can inhibit the activity of tyrosinase for the oxidation of DOPA, while compound d had no effects on enzyme activity. The results show that compounds a and b are reversible non-competitive inhibitors.
Continuing our interest in the Uncaria genus, the phytochemistry and the in-vitro α-glucosidase inhibitory activities of Malaysian Uncaria cordata var. ferruginea were investigated. The phytochemical study of this plant, which employed various chromatographic techniques including recycling preparative HPLC, led to the isolation of ten compounds with diverse structures comprising three phenolic acids, two coumarins, three flavonoids, a terpene and an iridoid glycoside. These constituents were identified as 2-hydroxybenzoic acid or salicylic acid (1), 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), scopoletin or 7-hydroxy-6-methoxy-coumarin (4), 3,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxycoumarin (5), quercetin (6), kaempferol (7), taxifolin (8), loganin (9) and β-sitosterol (10). Structure elucidation of the compounds was accomplished with the aid of 1D and 2D Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectral data and Ultraviolet-Visible (UV-Vis), Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS). In the α-glucosidase inhibitory assay, the crude methanolic extract of the stems of the plant and its acetone fraction exhibited strong α-glucosidase inhibition activity of 87.7% and 89.2%, respectively, while its DCM fraction exhibited only moderate inhibition (75.3%) at a concentration of 1 mg/mL. The IC50 values of both fractions were found to be significantly lower than the standard acarbose suggesting the presence of potential α-glucosidase inhibitors. Selected compounds isolated from the active fractions were then subjected to α-glucosidase assay in which 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and quercetin showed strong inhibitory effects against the enzyme with IC50 values of 549 and 556 μg/mL compared to acarbose (IC50 580 μg/mL) while loganin and scopoletin only showed weak α-glucosidase inhibition of 44.9% and 34.5%, respectively. This is the first report of the isolation of 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and loganin from the genus and the first report of the α-glucosidase inhibitory potential of 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Thermochemolysis (or thermally-assisted hydrolysis/methylation) is a unique in situ technique for analysis of a wide range of biomaterials, in their natural form, from plants material. It involves derivatization of analyte functional groups concurrent with mild thermal fragmentation of biomaterials and selective base-catalyzed cleavage of ester and ether bonds rather than the harsh thermal fragmentation and decomposition which is the case during the traditional pyrolysis. This thesis has targeted a number of special applications, all involving the chemical profiling of complex and different samples using trimethylsulfonium hydroxide (TMSH). Application of thermochemolysis-TMSH for the chemical profiling of needles of ozone fumigated pine trees showed that the concentrations of 3-hydroxybenzoic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, useful as ozone damage markers, decreased with increased ozone dosage. It also revealed that the resin acids, anticopalic, 3-oxoanticopalic, 3β-hydroxyanticopalic and 3,4-cycloanticopalic acid were prominent in the ozone-sensitive pine; however, only anticopalic acid was present in the ozone-tolerant clone. In another application, the chemistry of the antioxidant catechin was investigated under thermochemolysis conditions wherein both fully and partially methylated catechin in addition to a base-catalyzed epimerization product (i.e. methylated epicatechin) were identified. The polymeric structures of catechin-containing condensed tannins were also examined by thermochemolysis. A novel two-step methylation technique (TMS-diazomethane followed by thermochemolysis) was developed which allowed for the observation, for the first time, of a dimeric catechin at MW = 540 amu. -- A direct thermochemolysis solids injector device was constructed allowing the use of an injection port (instead of a pyrolyzer) for thermochemolysis-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The analytical usefulness of this thermochemolysis device was tested in direct comparison to a microfurnace pyrolyzer. It exhibited a similar chromatographic result for the thermochemolysis of standard catechin. Further, it was shown that this solids injector was suitable for real sample analysis containing a wide range of compounds including small phenolics, fatty acids, diterpene resin acids and flavonoids. In addition, chemical analysis of lignin macromolecules was investigated using the same direct thermochemolysis solids injector. This research work was the first to observe new dimeric thermochemolysis products (sylvatesmin and yangambin). These two lignin markers can be used to differentiate hardwood lignins from softwood lignins.
Abstract: Continuing our interest in the Uncaria genus, the phytochemistry and the in-vitro α-glucosidase inhibitory activities of Malaysian Uncaria cordata var. ferruginea were investigated. The phytochemical study of this plant, which employed various chromatographic techniques including recycling preparative HPLC, led to the isolation of ten compounds with diverse structures comprising three phenolic acids, two coumarins, three flavonoids, a terpene and an iridoid glycoside. These constituents were identified as 2-hydroxybenzoic acid or salicylic acid (1), 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), scopoletin or 7-hydroxy-6-methoxy-coumarin (4), 3,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxycoumarin (5), quercetin (6), kaempferol (7), taxifolin (8), loganin (9) and β-sitosterol (10). Structure elucidation of the compounds was accomplished with the aid of 1D and 2D Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectral data and Ultraviolet-Visible (UV-Vis), Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS). In the α-glucosidase inhibitory assay, the crude methanolic extract of the stems of the plant and its acetone fraction exhibited strong α-glucosidase inhibition activity of 87.7% and 89.2%, respectively, while its DCM fraction exhibited only moderate inhibition (75.3%) at a concentration of 1 mg/mL. The IC 50 values of both fractions were found to be significantly lower than the standard acarbose suggesting the presence of potential α-glucosidase inhibitors. Selected compounds isolated from the active fractions were then subjected to α-glucosidase assay in which 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and quercetin showed strong inhibitory effects against the enzyme with IC 50 values of 549 and 556 µg/mL compared to acarbose (IC 50 580 µg/mL) while loganin and scopoletin only showed weak α-glucosidase inhibition of 44.9% and 34.5%, respectively. This is the first report of the isolation of 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and loganin from the genus and the first report of the α-glucosidase inhibitory potential of 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
In normal sterile eyes, the conjunctival mucus thread is capable of reducing the vital stain iodonitrotetrazolium (INT). The greatly increased amount of INT reduction in bacterial conjunctivitis has been used as a clinical test for this disorder. We find that native superoxide dismutase, but not the heat inactivated enzyme, inhibits INT reduction by the conjunctival mucus thread in vitro as well as in vivo in sterile rabbit eyes. Furthermore, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), a scavenger of superoxide radical (O2-), inhibits INT reduction by the mucus thread. We conclude that INT reduction by the mucus thread is due to a superoxide radical-producing system similar to that apparently responsible for the tetrazolium-reducing properties of granulocytes and other phagocytes. This oxygen radical-producing system may serve as a defense against infection and possibly as a mediator of the conjunctival inflammatory response.
Objective To isolate and purify the antioxidant compounds from fructus xanthii and to study their antioxidant activity.Methods Compounds were isolated by repeated silica gel,macroreticular resin Diaion HP-20 and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography and their antioxidant property was determined by scavenging activity to DPPH and ·OH.Results Five antioxidant compounds were isolated from the ethyl acetate extracts of Xanthium sibiricum fruits and their structures were identified as 5,7,3',4'-tetramethoxyisoflavone,myricetin-3'-methyl ether,falcalindiol,1,8-heptadecadiene-4,6-diyne-3,10-diol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.Among them,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid had the highest radical scavenging activity.Conclusion All above 5 compounds have high antioxidant activities,and antioxidant activity of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid is the highest.
In the present study, the role of the phenolic compounds and the pollen grains as differential diagnosis of Senna senna plants grow in the valleys and on the mountains of Makkah Al-Mukarramah was demonstrated. Since Senna is a member of the anthracene group of purgatives, its active principles being derivatives of anthraquinone, the present work aimed to investigating its phenolic compounds that have medicinal significance. Flavonoids were classified according to their chemical structure to three groups: O-Flavonols included Quercetin, Rutin (Quercetin-3-rutinoside), Isoquercitrin (Quercetin-3-glucoside), Quercetrin (Quercetin-3-rhamnoside) and Kaempfherol. O-Flavones were represented by Apigenin. It was accompanied by its C-Flavone, Vitexin. Both hydrolysable and condensed tannins were detected. Three phenolic acids were detected. 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and Gentisic acid (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid). Phloroglucinol, (-)-Epicatechin and (+)-Catechin; the precursor of condensed tannins and the flavan desivative were also detected. Generally the pollen grains of the studied taxa of the genus Senna growing in the vallyes and on the mountains of Makkah Al-Mukarramah are radically symmetrical, isopolar, tricolporate and triangular trilobed with fossulate sculpture. The chemotaxonomical and palynological studies of the studied taxa of the genus Senna are not inagreement except for the flowers. Therefore further details of the flavonoid constituents and their distribution especially of those which are less wide spread, are to be studied because as understanding of their chemical properties will be helpful in the interpretation of their chemotaxonomical properties of Senna senna plants.
Isodon lophathoides var. graciliflorus (Lamiaceae) has been used as an herb for making health beneficial beverages and an ingredient for making soup in China. This study revealed thirteen phenolic compounds isolated from the aerial parts of the herb for the first time. They were rosmarinic acid (1), methyl rosmarinate (2), clinopodic acid A (3), salvianolic acid A (4), nepetoidin B (5), caffeic acid (6), vinyl caffeate (7), danshensu (8), latifolicinin C (9), hydroxytyrosol (10), procatechuic aldehyde (11), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (12) and syringic acid (13). Their structures were determined by spectroscopic method including nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) and comparison of the data with the values reported in references. Ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity of these compounds were evaluated, and compounds 1-8 and 13 were more potent or comparable to c-ascorbic acid. In addition, compounds 5 and 13 showed antibacterial activity against Staphyloccocus aureus and Shigella dysenteriae with IC50 values ranging from 44.15 to 79.13 mu M, and compound 5 was also active towards Bacillus cereus. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Objective: To study the chemical constituents of the leaves of Cassia angustifolia Vahl.Methods: Solvents extraction and various chromatographic methods were applied to separate and purify its constituents.The structures were elucidated on the basis of chemical evidence and spectral analysis.Results: Six compounds were obtained and identified as cholesterol(Ⅰ),kampferol-3-rutinoside(Ⅱ),calyxanthone(Ⅲ),3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-benzoic acid(Ⅳ),p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde(Ⅴ),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅵ).Conclusion: Six compounds(Ⅰ-Ⅵ) are obtained from this plant for the first time.
N-Nitrosation of a model aromatic amine (2,3-diamino-naphthalene) by the N-nitrosating agent produced by nitrite in acidic solution was inhibited by a polyphenol, chlorogenic acid, which is an ester of caffeic acid quinic acid. Caffeic acid also inhibited the N-nitrosation, but quinic acid did not. 1,2-Benzenediols and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid had inhibitory activities. Chlorogenic acid, caffeic acid, 1,2-benzenediols and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were able to scavenge the stable free radical, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl. Chlorogenic acid was found to be nitrated by acidic nitrite. The kinetic studies and the nitration observed only by bubbling of nitric oxide plus nitrogen dioxide gases indicated that the nitrating agent was nitrogen sesquioxide. The observations showed that the mechanism by which chlorogenic acid inhibited N-nitrosation of 2,3-diamino-naphthalene is due to its ability to scavenge the nitrosating agent, nitrogen sesquioxide. Chlorogenic acid may be effective not only in protecting against oxidative damage but also in inhibiting potentially mutagenic and carcinogenic reactions in vivo.
Four cocrystals of (S-ox)(ga) (1), (RS-ox)(ga) (2), (S-ox)(pa) (3), and (RS-ox)(pa) (4) were prepared (S-ox = S-oxiracetam, RS-ox = racemic oxiracetam, ga = gallic acid, pa = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), and their structures were determined by single X-ray diffraction. In 1/2, two ga molecules link two S-ox/RS-ox molecules through intermolecular hydrogen bonds with a new R22(9) synthon to form a tetramer, the tetramers are further linked by intertetramer hydrogen bonds to generate a 2D sheet, and the adjacent 2D sheets are connected by intersheet hydrogen bonds to form the 3D structure of 1/2. In 3/4, the ox molecules form a 1D helical chain through intermolecular hydrogen bonds, and the helical chains are further linked by pa molecules through intermolecular hydrogen bonds to form a 2D sheet. The results of hygroscopic stability experiments indicate that the hygroscopic stability of S-ox is much enhanced after the formation of cocrystal 1.
Periodontal disease is a common, chronic infectious disease triggered by the bacterial biofilm of dental plaque resulting in inflammatory loss of the tooth supporting tissues (1) . Globally, it affects 5‐70% of the older (above 65 years) population (2) and can impact on their diet and nutrition leading to weight loss, as well as increase the risk for chronic diseases like diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease (3) .I n recent years, specific dietary compounds, especially the polyphenolics have attracted scientific attention due to their health promoting potential. As a regular constituent of the human diet, polyphenols offer a promising alternative in the prevention of microbiota-related oral diseases via their relative safety (at physiological level) and antioxidant, antibacterial and, anti inflammatory potentials (4) . For successful manipulation of polyphenols in functional foods and healthcare products, it is necessary to study their antibacterial effects. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the antibacterial activity of a range of polyphenols against selected periodontal pathogens, with emphasis on structure-function relationship. Polyphenolic compounds (n = 46, from 8 subgroups) were screened for their antimicrobial activity against four periodontal pathogens: two aerobic, Streptococcus mitis (Sm) and Actinobacillus actinomycetocommitans (Aa) and two anaerobic, Fusobacterium nucleatum (Fn) and Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg). The antimicrobial potential of each compound was evaluated in terms of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration (MBC) using plate dilution assay following standard clinical and laboratory (CLSI) guidelines. Chlorhexidine (0.2%), well known for its antimicrobial properties, was used as a reference. All polyphenols tested displayed antimicrobial properties against one or more test strains except kaempferol-3-glucoronoid, epicatechin, malvin (highest concentration tested: 250 mg/ml), theaflavin, procyanidin B2 (highest concentration tested: 125 mg/ml). Curcumin was found to be the most potent with MIC range of 7.81‐62.5 mg/ml against all test strains (highest activity against pg and Fn), followed by pyrogallol (MIC 2.4‐312.5 mg/ml) and pyrocatechol (MIC 4.88‐312.5 mg/ml) which were highly effective against Sm and Aa. Apigenin and diadzein were only effective against anaerobic bacteria (MIC 15.6‐125 mg/ml and 15.6‐500 mg/ml, respectively). MBC for most of the polyphenols was either the same or twice the MIC. More polyphenolic compounds were effective in inhibiting the growth of the Gram - ve Aa (34/46 tested) than the growth of the Gram +ve Sm (23/46 tested); the concentration needed was 3 times lower, with a mean MIC of 341.0 mg/ml (SD 94) vs. a mean MIC of 1061.8 mg/ml (SD 921), p <0.001. Aglycones were more potent inhibitors of growth compared to their corresponding glycosides in all strains: mean MIC 122.1 mg/ml (SD 117) vs. 519.5 mg/ml (SD460), respectively, p <0.001. With the presence of an extra OH group, the MIC against Aa decreased (3-hydroxybenzoic acid vs. 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid vs. 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid; 625 mg/ml vs. 312.5 mg/ml vs. 9.6 mg/ml). The MIC against Aa was also affected by location of the OH group (1,2-dihydroxybenzene vs. 1,3-dihydroxybenzene; MIC 4.88 mg/ml vs. 1250 mg/ml). This study shows that polyphenols are endowed with antibacterial properties against periodontopathic bacteria, indicating that they have the potential to prevent periodontal diseases. These properties are affected by bacterial strain and properties as well as the structure of the polyphenolic molecule.
The leaves and petioles of Carya illinoensis and a lyophilized aqueous extract of this plant were investigated. Examination of the petroleum ether, ether, and chloroform extracts revealed the presence of unidentified phytosterols and a squalene-like substance in the unsaponified portions, and the presence of capric, lauric, myristic, palmitic, stearic, arachidic, oleic, linoleic, and linolenic acids in the saponified portions. Nonhydrolyzable tannins containing a phloroglucinol and a catechol nucleus were found in the ethanol and methanol extracts. Investigation of the plant extracts revealed the presence of carbohydrates and the absence of discernible amounts of glycosides and alkaloids. A crystalline neutral substance obtained from a neutral lead acetate treated aqueous extract was identified as the m -inositol. A crystalline acidic substance isolated from an aqueous extract of the crude drug was identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Further pharmacologic studies of various extracts are presently in progress.
It has been reported that the dihydroxybenzene (DHB) driven Fenton reaction is more efficient to degrade recalcitrant substrates than the simple Fenton reaction. The enhanced reactivity of the DHB driven Fenton reaction is not clear, but it could be explained by the formation of oxidant species different from the ones formed by classical Fenton reaction or by the shift of the redox potential of the complex formed by DHB and Fe(III). The redox reaction between Fe(III) and the DHBs 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (catechol, CAT), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), and 1,2-dihydroxy-3,5-benzenedisulfonate (TIRON) was studied by cyclic voltammetry to better understand the enhanced reactivity of the DHB driven Fenton reaction. It was determined that the amount of Fe(II) produced by the redox reaction between Fe(III) and DHBs was insufficient to explain the enhanced reactivity. Cyclic voltammograms (CV) of the DHBs/Fe(III) systems show a quasi-reversible or irreversible behavior and also shifting and splitting the anodic peaks. This effect can be related to DHBs oxidation by Fe(III), but not to a real interaction.
Abstract Excessive accumulation of collagen is the hallmark of several clinical conditions characterized by tissue fibrosis. Previously, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a structural analog of alpha-ketoglutarate and ascorbate, has been shown to inhibit the activity of purified prolyl 4-hydroxylase, the enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline during intracellular biosynthesis of procollagen. In this study a hydrophobic modification, an ethyl ester, of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was tested for its effects on collagen synthesis and prolyl hydroxylase activity in human skin fibroblast cultures. The results indicated that 0.4 mM ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate markedly inhibited the synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline in normal cell cultures apparently as a result of reduced prolyl 4-hydroxylase activity, and the synthesis and secretion of both type I and type III procollagens were markedly reduced. Control experiments indicated that the test compound did not affect the viability, proliferation, or plating efficiency of the cells, and it had little, if any, effect on the synthesis of noncollagenous proteins. Furthermore, determinations of type I and type III procollagen mRNA steady-state levels by slot-blot hybridizations suggested that the inhibition of procollagen production did not occur on the pretranslational level. Thus, ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate selectively reduced procollagen production in fibroblast cultures by inhibiting the post-translational synthesis of 4-hydroxyproline. Similar inhibition was also observed in keloid fibroblast cultures, demonstrating the potential applicability of ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate, or other structural alpha-ketoglutarate or ascorbate analogs, for treatment of fibrotic diseases.
The dried root of Salvia miltiorrhiza (Danshen), a commonly used traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), is widely used to treat coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, hepatitis, hepatocirrhosis and chronic renal failure (1) (2) (3) (4) . It is mainly distributed throughout the north of China and is officially listed in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia (5) . There are a number of traditional Chinese medicinal preparations (TCMPs) that contain Danshen. Protocatechuic aldehyde (PAL) has been considered to be one of the major active constituents of S. miltiorrhiza. A number of pharmacological studies have shown that PAL possessed biological activities, such as improving microcirculation, reducing atherosclerosis, inhibiting the aggregation of platelets and anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory effects (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) . Protocatechuic acid (PCA; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) is a water-soluble monomeric phenolic acid compound, which is widely distributed in the nature of various kinds of medicinal plants. PCA plays an important role in anti-radical, anti-oxidant, anti-bacterial and anti-tumor promotion activities (11) (12) (13) . PCA is a major bioactive metabolite of PAL in the previous study (14) . Metabolite identification is important in the drug discovery and development process to optimize lead compounds for further development. Now the study of metabolites' exposure levels attracts more and more attention. We must pay attention to the role of active metabolites in the study of new drugs, because sometimes the pharmacological activities of metabolites relate to the safety and efficacy. The FDA provides guideline about the drug systemic exposure of the metabolites (15) .
Expression of phenol oxidases (PO) in bacteria is often observed during physiological and morphological changes; in the nitrogen-fixing strain Azotobacter chroococcum SBUG 1484, it is accompanied by the formation of encysted cells and melanin. Herein, we studied the effects of copper and the depletion of the nitrogenase-relevant metals molybdenum and iron on physiological characteristics such as culture pigmentation, release of ortho-dihydroxylated melanin precursors, and expression of PO activity in A. chroococcum. Biomass production and melanogenic appearance were directly affected by the depletion of either iron or molybdenum, or in the absence of both metals. Only nitrogen-fixing cells growing in the presence of both metals and cultures supplemented with iron (molybdenum starved) showed the ability to produce an intensively brown-black melanin pigment typically associated with A. chroococcum. Accordingly, PO production was only detected in the presence of both metals and in iron-supplemented cultures starved of molybdenum. The total amount of catecholate siderophores produced by nitrogen-fixing melanogenic cells was considerably higher than in cultures starved of metal ions. Induction of enhanced PO activity was stimulated by additional copper sulfate, possibly related to cellular processes involved in the detoxification of this particular metal, and revealed distinct release of the ortho-dihydroxylated melanin precursors catechol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Monascus pigment is a natural, safe pigment and preservative. Six inhibitors of key enzymes from three metabolic pathways were chosen according to databases, and were used in basic medium to study their effects on the pigment synthesis in Monascus anka strain M5034. Trimethylamine, inhibitor of shikimic acid pathways, and anthranilic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, inhibitors of mevalonic acid pathways, had no effects on the pigment biosynthesis. Pigment biosynthesis was severely inhibited by three inhibitors of the key enzymes in the polyketide pathways at the concentrations with no effects for growth of the strain. Iodiacetamide (lower than 0.5mmol/L), specific inhibitor of β-ketoacyl-acylcarrier protein (ACP) synthase, reduced remarkably the pigment synthesis by 64.7%; 1.0 mmol/L imidazole, being nonspecific inhibitor of ACP synthase, could strongly suppress the synthesis of pigment by 60%, and 0.5mmol/L 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene, inhibiting the activity of thioesterase, strongly limited the pigment production with inhibitory extent up to 91.5%. All data implied that Monascus pigments might be synthesized through polyketide pathway.
Abstract Zn,Al-layered double hydroxides (LDHs) intercalated by an anionic oxomolybdenum guest were prepared by ion-exchange of precursor Zn,Al-NO 3 LDHs with the complex [NMe 4 ] 2 [MoO 2 (3,4-dhb) 2 ] (3,4-H 2 dhb=3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid). Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) showed that the basal spacing increased from 8.7 to 8.9 A for the precursor materials to 15.0 A for the pillared hybrids. Elemental analysis and IR/Raman spectroscopy indicated that most of the interlayer nitrate anions were displaced by [MoO 2 (3,4-dhb) 2 ] 2− anions. Powder XRD diagrams of Zn,Al-[MoO 2 (3,4-dhb) 2 ], recorded at increasing temperatures in the range 25–450 °C, show that the 15 A phase is stable up to about 160 °C. Slightly above this temperature, partial dehydroxylation of the double hydroxide layers occurs, and the characteristic (00 l ) reflections of the pillared phase are lost. The material is X-ray amorphous in the temperature range 230–450 °C.
It was found that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuric acid) inhibited chemiluminescence of luminol-H2O2 reaction catalyzed by Co2+. On this basis, a flow injection method has been developed for the determination of protocatechuric acid. The method is simple, convenient and sensitive with detection limit of 2.7 x 10(-7) mol/L and is effective to determine protocatechuric acid in the range of 1 x 10(-6)-1 x 10(-5) mol/L. The variation coefficient of eleven determinations for 8 x 10(-6) mol/L protocatechuric acid is 2.3%.
Abstract The gradual release of the ligand 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) from its molybdenum complex in the presence of ascorbic acid (AscA) in a weakly acidic aqueous solution (pH ∼ 3.5) is described. We observed that the formation of the 3,4-DHBA-semiquinone oxidation state and the semidehydroascorbate is a pre-requisite for the release of the 3,4-DHBA ligand. The interaction of these radicals leads at the same time to the further degradation of AscA resulting in, among other compounds, threonic acid which participates in the reaction with molybdenum. The comparison of the complexing ability indicated that threonic acid competes with protocatechuate, while ascorbic acid is a less good ligand for the Mo(VI). Solution studies on the reaction mechanism were performed by cyclic voltammetry, NMR spectroscopy and UV–Vis spectroscopy. Isolated precipitates were investigated by NMR spectroscopy. The antioxidant properties of 3,4-DHBA and AscA were also compared using the stable radical 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH).
Nerve growth factor (NGF) serves a critical survival-promoting function for developing sympathetic neurons. Following removal of NGF, sympathetic neurons undergo apoptosis characterized by the activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs), up-regulation of BH3-only proteins including BcL-2-interacting mediator of cell death (BIM)EL, release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, and activation of caspases. Here we show that two small-molecule prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors frequently used to activate hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) – ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) – can inhibit apoptosis caused by trophic factor deprivation. Both DHB and DMOG blocked the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria after NGF withdrawal, whereas only DHB blocked c-Jun up-regulation and phosphorylation. DHB, but not DMOG, also attenuated the induction of BIMEL in NGF-deprived neurons, suggesting a possible mechanism whereby DHB could inhibit cytochrome c release. DMOG, on the other hand, was substantially more effective at stabilizing HIF-2α and inducing expression of the HIF target gene hexokinase 2 than was DHB. Thus, while HIF prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors can delay cell death in NGF-deprived neurons, they do so through distinct mechanisms that, at least in the case of DHB, are partly independent of HIF stabilization.
Protocatechuic acid (PCA, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), the main metabolite of anthocyanins, is widely distributed in fruits and vegetables and has been reported to possess a strong antioxidant activity. Herein, we aimed to investigate the protective effect of PCA against high palmitic-acid (PA)-induced oxidative damage and the underling molecular mechanisms in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). PCA reduced the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde and increased the activities of endogenous antioxidant enzymes, including superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase 1, and heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1). Metabolomic analysis showed that PCA affected numerous metabolites, especially some of which were related with energy metabolism. PCA also upregulated the phosphorylation of adenosine-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) at Thr172 through activating liver kinase B1 and then promoted the expression of p-Nrf2 and HO-1. Moreover, PCA reversed the decreased expressio...
Tannins and hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid), are plant secondary metabolites which protect plants against herbivores and plant-associated microorganisms. Some microbes, such as the yeast Arxula adeninivorans are resistant to these antimicrobial substances and are able to use tannins and gallic acid as carbon sources. In this study, the Arxula gallic acid decarboxylase (Agdc1p) which degrades gallic acid to pyrogallol was characterized and its function in tannin catabolism analyzed. The enzyme has a higher affinity for gallic acid (Km -0.7 ± 0.2 mM, kcat -42.0 ± 8.2 s-1) than to protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) (Km -3.2 ± 0.2 mM, kcat -44.0 ± 3.2 s-1). Other hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid are not gallic acid decarboxylase substrates. A. adeninivorans G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1, which expresses the AGDC1 gene under the control of the strong nitrate inducible AYNI1 promoter achieved a maximum gallic acid decarboxylase activity of 1064.4 U/l and 97.5 U/g of dry cell weight in yeast grown in minimal medium with nitrate as nitrogen source and glucose as carbon source. In the same medium, gallic acid decarboxylase activity was not detected for the control strain G1212/YRC102 with AGDC1 expression under the control of the endogenous promoter. Gene expression analysis showed that AGDC1 is induced by gallic acid and protocatechuic acid. In contrast to G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1 and G1212/YRC102, A. adeninivorans G1234 [Δagdc1] is not able to grow on medium with gallic acid as carbon source but can grow in presence of protocatechuic acid. This confirms that Agdc1p plays an essential role in the tannic acid catabolism and could be useful in the production of catechol and cis,cis-muconic acid. However, the protocatechuic acid catabolism via Agdc1p to catechol seems to be not the only degradation pathway.
The detection of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is based on indirect methods due to the high reactivity and short half-life of ROS in biological tissue. The commonly used salicylate trapping method has several disadvantages making it unsuitable for human use. We have evaluated 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) together with microdialysis (MD) in the rat as an alternative method. 4-HBA forms one stable adduct, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), when reacting with ROS and has not previously been used together with MD after TBI. Twenty-seven rats were used for the assessment of 3,4-DHBA production as an indicator of ROS formation in a controlled contusion injury model using intracerebral MD with 3 mM 4-HBA in the perfusate. For comparison, salicylate trapping was used in eight rats. TBI caused a 250% increase of 3,4-DHBA that peaked at 30 min after injury in severely injured rats and remained significantly elevated as compared to baseline for 90 min after trauma. The mild injury level caused a 100% increase in 3,4-DHBA formation at 30 min after the injury. When the MD probe was placed in the perimeter of the injury site, no significant increase in ROS formation occurred. Salicylate trapping showed a similar increase in adduct formation after severe injury. In addition, high cortical concentrations of 4-HBA and salicylate were found. It is concluded that microdialysis with 4-HBA as a trapping agent appears to be a useful method for ROS detection in the rat with a potential clinical utility.
Reduction and dissolution of manganese(III,IV) oxide suspensions by 27 aromatic and nonaromatic compounds resembling natural organics were examined in order to understand the solubilization reaction in nature. At pH 7.2 10/sup -3/ M formate, fumarate, glycerol, lactate, malonate, phthalate, propanol, propionaldehyde, propionate, and sorbitol did not dissolve appreciable amounts of oxide after 3 h of reaction. The following organics did dissolve manganese oxides under these conditions and are listed in order of decreasing reactivity: 3-methoxycatechol approx. catechol approx. 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acidapprox. ascorbate > 4-nitro-catechol > thiosalicylate > hydroquinone > 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid > syringic acid > o-methoxyphenol > vanillic acidapprox. orcinol approx. 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid > resorcinol > oxalite approx. pyruvate approx. salicylate. Relative reactivities of organic substrates are discussed in terms of surface complex formation prior to electron transfer. Dissolution of manganese oxides by marine fulvic acid was enhanced by illumination, verifying that the reaction is photocatalyzed.
Objective: To study active constituents of Macropanax rosthornii in treating rheumatoid arthritis.Method: Silica gel column chromatography,preparative HPLC and modern spectrum techniques were applied for a systematic study on chemical constituents contained in M.rosthornii.Result: Twelve compounds were separated from M.rosthornii and identified as serratagenic acid(1),serjanic acid(2),betulinic acid(3),6β-hydroxy-3-oxo-olean-12-en-28-oic acid(4),3-O-α-L-arabinopyranosyl serratagenic acid(5),3-O-α-L-arabinopyranosyl serratagenic acid-29-methyl ester(6),3-O-α-L-arabinopyranosyl serratagenic acid-28-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl ester(7),scopoletin(8),β-sitosterol(9),daucosterol(10),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(11),and stearic acid(12).Conclusion: Above compounds are separated from M.rosthornii for the first time.
Tissue homogenates of the deep sea annelids Alvinella caudata and Alvinella pompejana were found to contain enzyme activity resembling vertebrate prolyl 4-hydroxylase. The release of 3H2O from [3,4-(3)H]proline labeled, under-hydroxylated chicken protocollagen type I depended on the presence of the cofactors 2-oxoglutarate, ascorbate, Fe2+ and O2. The release of 3H2O could be inhibited by the prolyl 4-hydroxylase inhibitors zinc, 2,2'-dipyridyl, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and pyridine-2,4-dicarboxylate, as well as by the synthetic peptide (Pro-Pro-Gly)10. This synthetic peptide could also serve as substrate, because it enhanced the decarboxylation of 2-oxo[5-(14)C]glutarate. Alvinella prolyl hydroxylase appeared to be related to type II vertebrate enzyme because of its lack of affinity for poly (L-proline) and resistance to inactivation by an irreversible peptide inhibitor of chicken prolyl 4-hydroxylase. Maximal enzyme activity was observed in solutions with less than 10% oxygen saturation. By contrast, chicken enzyme was most active at saturating oxygen concentrations. Further data suggest that the Alvinella enzymes are able to accept the 2-oxo acids pyruvate, oxaloacetate and 2-oxoadipinate as substitutes of the cosubstarate 2-oxoglutarate. The data explain the high hydroxylation of Alvinella collagens despite the low oxygen concentrations around hydrothermal vents.
Surface modification of nanocrystalline TiO2 particles (45 A) with bidentate benzene derivatives, that is, 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and catechol was found to alter optical properties of nanoparticles. The formation of the inner-sphere charge transfer (CT) complexes results in a red shift of the semiconductor absorption compared to unmodified nanocrystallites. The binding structures were investigated by using FTIR spectroscopy. The investigated ligands have the optimal geometry for chelating surface Ti atoms, resulting in ring coordination complexes (catecholate or salycilate type of binuclear bidentate binding), thus restoring six-coordinated octahedral geometry of surface Ti atoms. From the Benesi−Hildebrand plot, the stability constants at pH 2 of the order 103 M−1 have been determined.
alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) reduces infarct size, improves recovery of brain energy metabolism and delays the secondary increase in extracellular potassium after focal ischaemia, presumably by trapping OH radicals. We investigated the effect of PBN on the formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) as a measure of OH radical formation, during and following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Rats, subjected to 2 h of ischaemia followed by 3 h of recirculation, were injected with either vehicle or PBN (100 mg kg-1 i.p.) prior to MCAO or immediately after recirculation, respectively. The in vivo microdialysis technique was used to collect samples for analysis of 3,4-DHBA by HPLC. The basal levels of 3,4-DHBA were 56-77 nmol L-1 in the four groups. During ischaemia, the formation of 3,4-DHBA decreased by about 50% in all groups. Upon recirculation, a 3-fold rise in 3,4-DHBA formation was seen. At 2 h of recirculation the mean value of 3,4-DHBA in the pretreated, vehicle-injected animals was 125 +/- 18 nmol L-1 and in the PBN-injected 145 +/- 48 nmol L-1, respectively. When the animals were treated after MCAO either with vehicle or PBN the values at 2 h recirculation were 155 +/- 148 and 189 +/- 145 nmol L-1, respectively. No statistically significant difference between vehicle- and PBN-injected groups was seen. We conclude that during reperfusion following MCAO, hydroxyl radical formation increases. The increase is not ameliorated by PBN which suggests that PBN does not protect the brain by a general scavenging of OH radicals, although tissue specific actions cannot be excluded.
Abstract The effect of heating at different temperatures (60, 80, 90, 110, and 130 °C) on the total phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and phenolic compounds present in plum and mahaleb fruits was investigated. The antioxidant activity values and total phenolic contents of fresh plum (93.82% measured by DPPH method, 787.79 mg gallic acid equivalent (GAE)/100 g dry weight determined by Folin method) and mahaleb fruits (81.80%, 634.47 mg GAE/100 g dry weight) were higher than plum and mahaleb fruits dried at different temperatures (p < 0.05). Generally, the heating process caused a reduction in both total phenolic content and antioxidant activity for plum and mahaleb. While (+)-catechin (92.62 mg/kg), 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (132.15 mg/kg), gallic acid (107.01 mg/kg), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (74.59 mg/kg) are the key phenolic compounds in fresh plum, (+)-catechin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 1,2-dihydroxybenzene, and syringic and caffeic acids were the major phenolic compounds of mahaleb fruits. The polyphenol content of fruits and the class of phenolics present are significantly affected by heating temperature.
Tannins and hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid), are plant secondary metabolites which protect plants against herbivores and plant-associated microorganisms. Some microbes, such as the yeast Arxula adeninivorans are resistant to these antimicrobial substances and are able to use tannins and gallic acid as carbon sources. In this study, the Arxula gallic acid decarboxylase (Agdc1p) which degrades gallic acid to pyrogallol was characterized and its function in tannin catabolism analyzed. The enzyme has a higher affinity for gallic acid (K m −0.7 ± 0.2 mM, k cat −42.0 ± 8.2 s −1 ) than to protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) (K m −3.2 ± 0.2 mM, k cat −44.0 ± 3.2 s −1 ). Other hydroxylated aromatic acids, such as 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid are not gallic acid decarboxylase substrates. A. adeninivorans G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1, which expresses the AGDC1 gene under the control of the strong nitrate inducible AYNI1 promoter achieved a maximum gallic acid decarboxylase activity of 1064.4 U/l and 97.5 U/g of dry cell weight in yeast grown in minimal medium with nitrate as nitrogen source and glucose as carbon source. In the same medium, gallic acid decarboxylase activity was not detected for the control strain G1212/YRC102 with AGDC1 expression under the control of the endogenous promoter. Gene expression analysis showed that AGDC1 is induced by gallic acid and protocatechuic acid. In contrast to G1212/YRC102-AYNI1-AGDC1 and G1212/YRC102, A. adeninivorans G1234 [ agdc1] is not able to grow on medium with gallic acid as carbon source but can grow in presence of protocatechuic acid. This confirms that Agdc1p plays an essential role in the tannic acid catabolism and could be useful in the production of catechol and cis,cis-muconic acid. However, the protocatechuic acid catabolism via Agdc1p to catechol seems to be not the only degradation pathway.
We previously reported the protective effects of methanol extract against oxidative stress. Among fractions obtained from the extract with different organic solvents, the butanol fraction had the strongest activity (Sin et al., 2011) . Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA) was one of the most abundant phenolic compounds in the extract (Choi et al., 2012) . PCA has been found in many food plants including olives, Hibiscus sabdariffa, and Eucommia ulmoides (Lin et al., 2003; Tsai & Yin, 2012) . The biological activities of this compound, such as antioxidant, antibacterial, anticancer, antiulcer, antidiabetic, antiageing, antifibrotic, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antiatheROSsclerotic, cardiac, hepatoprotective, neurological, and renoprotective activities have been reported (Rao & Liang, 1980; Rao, Liu, Gao, Liang, & Zhu, 1988; Shi, An, Jiang, Guan, & Bao, 2006; Tanaka, Tanaka, & Tanaka, 2011) .
The utilization of CO2 as a carbon source for organic synthesis meets the urgent demand for more sustainability in the production of chemicals. Herein, we report on the enzyme-catalyzed para-carboxylation of catechols, employing 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylases (AroY) that belong to the UbiD enzyme family. Crystal structures and accompanying solution data confirmed that AroY utilizes the recently discovered prenylated FMN (prFMN) cofactor, and requires oxidative maturation to form the catalytically competent prFMNiminium species. This study reports on the in vitro reconstitution and activation of a prFMN-dependent enzyme that is capable of directly carboxylating aromatic catechol substrates under ambient conditions. A reaction mechanism for the reversible decarboxylation involving an intermediate with a single covalent bond between a quinoid adduct and cofactor is proposed, which is distinct from the mechanism of prFMN-associated 1,3-dipolar cycloadditions in related enzymes.
Biotransformations of 3-fluorophthalic acid have been investigated using blocked mutants of Pseudomonas testosteroni that are defective in the metabolism of phthalic acid (benzene-1,2-dicar-boxyfic acid). Mutant strains were grown with L-glutamic acid in the presence of 3-fluorophthalic acid as inducer of phthalic acid catabolic enzymes. Products that accumulated in the medium were isolated, purified and identified as the fluoroanalogues of those produced from phthalic acid by the same strains. The previously undescribed fluorochemicals cis-3-fluoro-4,5-dihydro-4,5-dihydroxyphthalic acid (VI) and 3-fluoro-4,5-dihydroxyphthalic acid (VII) have been obtained by biotransformation of 3-fluorophthalic acid, and 3-fluoro-5-hydroxyphthalic acid (X) from (VI) by freeze drying. In addition, samples of 2-fluoro-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2-fluoroprotocatechuic acid, VIII) and 3-fluoro-4,Sdi-hydroxybenzoic acid (5-fluoroprotocatechuic acid, IX) were obtained with a mutant deficient in the ring-fission enzyme, showin...
Two bufadienolides, 6beta-acetoxy-3beta,8beta,14beta-trihydroxy-12-oxobufa-4,20,22-trienolide and 14beta-hydroxybufa-3,5,20,22-tetraenolide were isolated from the dichloromethane extract of the bulbs of Drimia robusta and the methanol extract of the bulbs of Urginea epigea, respectively. The bulbs of Drimia robusta also yielded several known compounds, 6beta-acetoxy-3beta,8beta,12beta,14beta-tetrahydroxybufa-4,20,22-trienolide (12beta-hydroxyscillirosidin) from the dichloromethane extract and three common aromatic acids, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and trans-3-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-2-propenoic acid from the ethyl acetate extract.
Gallic acid (GA) is a naturally occurring phytochemical that has strong antioxidant and antibacterial activities. It is also used as a potential platform chemical for the synthesis of diverse high-value compounds. Hydrolytic degradation of tannins by acids, bases or microorganisms serves as a major way for GA production, which however, might cause environmental pollution and low yield and efficiency. Here, we report a novel approach for efficient microbial production of GA. First, structure-based rational engineering of PobA, a p-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, generated a new mutant, Y385F/T294A PobA, which displayed much higher activity toward 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) than the wild-type and any other reported mutants. Remarkably, expression of this mutant in Escherichia coli enabled generation of 1149.59 mg/L GA from 1000 mg/L 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA), representing a 93% molar conversion ratio. Based on that, we designed and reconstituted a novel artificial biosynthetic pathway of GA and achieved 440.53 mg/L GA production from simple carbon sources in E. coli. Further enhancement of precursor supply through reinforcing shikimate pathway was able to improve GA de novo production to 1266.39 mg/L in shake flasks. Overall, this study not only led to the development of a highly active PobA variant for hydroxylating 3,4-DHBA into GA via structure-based protein engineering approach, but also demonstrated a promising pathway for bio-based manufacturing of GA and its derived compounds. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2017;114: 2571–2580. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
A natural phenolic compound, protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), is present in many edible and medicinal plants. Recent studies, including our animal experiments, indicate that this simple phenolic acid could be protective against the development of epithelial malignancy in different tissues and cardiovascular diseases as well. The mechanism of the action is mostly associated with antioxidant activity, including inhibition of generation as well as scavenging of free radicals and upregulating antioxidant enzymes. The influence on Phases I and II of the metabolism of certain carcinogens and, perhaps, direct blocking of specific binding sites of ultimate carcinogens with DNA molecule, thus preventing adduct formation that may result in mutations and neoplastic transformation, also account for its cancer protective action. However, other biological aspects of the chemopreventive activity of protocatechuic acid are not fully studied. They include influence on the activity of inducible isoenzyme of cyclooxygenase and nitric oxide synthase, cell cycle–regulating proteins, or inflammatory cytokines, which are involved in oncogenesis. In view of its reported biological properties and relative safety, protocatechuic acid is a potential cancer chemopreventive product.
Nonanthocyanin secondary metabolites potentially contributing to the antiproliferative bioactivity of black raspberry (Rubus occidentalis L.) fruits were extracted in ethyl acetate and isolated by semipreparative and analytical HPLC and analyzed by NMR, HPLC-ESI-MS, and ESI-MS/MS techniques. Here we present complete and partial structures of a variety of the chemical entities such as quercetin 3-glucoside, quercetin 3-rutinoside, myricetin glucoside, dihydrokaempferol glucoside, benzoic acid β-d-glucopyranosyl ester, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, epicatechin, caffeic acid, p-coumaric acid, p-coumaryl glucoside, p-coumaryl sugar ester, ellagic acid, methyl ellagic acid acetylpentose, methyl ellagic acid valerylpentose, trans-piceid, phloretin glucoside (phloridzin), dihydrosinapic acid, salicylic acid β-d-glucopyranosyl ester, a salicylic acid derivative without attached sugar, p-alkylphenyl glucoside, and a citric acid derivative. To our knowledge, 15 of these compounds were not previously reported in black ...
The equilibrium reactions of scandium(III) with some triprotic catechol derivatives (H3L) were studied. The selected ligands that are 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), 3.4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid (3,4-DHHCA), and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (3,4-DHPA) were investigated in aqueous solution by means of potentiometry in 0.1 M ionic medium at 25°C. The stability constants are reported for the ScL and ScL(H2L)− mononuclear complexes. 2,3-DHBA can bind to Sc3+ ion strongly and the salicylate mode (COO−, O−) is effective over the acidic pH range. But in higher pH range, 3,4-DHBA, 3,4-DHHCA, and 3,4-DHPA act more efficiently through catecholate groups (O−, O−).
Abstract: The utilization of CO 2 as ac arbon source for organic synthesis meets the urgent demand for more sustainability in the production of chemicals.Herein, we report on the enzyme-catalyzed para-carboxylation of catechols, employing 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylases (AroY) that belong to the UbiD enzyme family.C rystal structures and accompanying solution data confirmed that AroY utilizes the recently discovered prenylated FMN (prFMN) cofactor,a nd requires oxidative maturation to form the catalytically competent prFMN iminium species.T his study reports on the in vitro reconstitution and activation of ap rFMN-dependent enzyme that is capable of directly carboxylating aromatic catechol substrates under ambient conditions.Areaction mechanism for the reversible decarboxylation involving an intermediate with asingle covalent bond between aquinoid adduct and cofactor is proposed, which is distinct from the mechanismofprFMNassociated 1,3-dipolar cycloadditions in related enzymes.
Cancer chemoprevention is classically defined as the use of natural or synthetic agents, such as polyphenols, flavonoids, and alkanoids, alone or in combination, to prevent, arrest, delay, or reverse either the initiation phase of carcinogenesis or the progression of neoplastic cells to malignant cancer, and it is a promising area in current cancer therapy. 1, 2 Natural compounds with antioxidant properties that protect the human body against the development of tumors can be found in a variety of plants, vegetables, and fruits. 3, 4 Epidemiological evidence also indicate that increasing the intake of fruits and vegetables reduces the incidence of cancer and is responsible for their protective properties. 5 Raspberry or Rubus idaeus L. is a plant that belongs to the Rosaceae family. The plant contains significant amounts of polyphenol antioxidants and is native to numerous parts of Europe and North America. Black raspberry wines contain rutin, epicatechin, catechin, malvidin 3-glucoside, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, myricetin, gallic acid, p-coumaric acid, and quercetin. 6 Rubus idaeus has an impressive prophylactic effect on renal stones formation in a mouse model of hyperoxaluria. 7 Earlier reports indicated that black raspberry extracts could reduce the growth rates of colon cancer HT-29 cells in vitro. 8 The ethanol extract of black raspberry inhibits cell proliferation and regulates apoptosis in human cervical cancer cells (SiHa, C33-A, and HeLa cell lines) in a dose-and time-dependent manner. 9 However, the effect of raspberry on cancer invasion and the metastasis of human lung cancer cells remains unclear.
A simple and sensitive electrochemical method for the determination of antioxidant capacity has been studied. 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) was used as a trapping agent for photogenerated .OH radicals, leading to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). Square-wave voltammetry was used to quantify the amount of 3,4-DHBA formed from the reaction between 4-HBA and .OH. Addition of antioxidants induced the competition between 4-HBA and antioxidants toward .OH elimination, resulting in a decrease of the measured current. The IC50 for different standard antioxidants was calculated and expressed in Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC). The proposed method was successfully compared to a fluorimetric one.
Summary ::: ::: Fine particle samples of silicate minerals and of gibbsite were shaken with solutions of pyrocatechol, 4-nitro-pyrocatechol or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid at pH 9·3–9·7 and 25°C. In 63 days, from 1·4 per cent (illite) to 17·9 per cent (nepheline) of the silica present was dissolved. Except for kaolinite in solutions of the two substituted catechols, the aluminosilicates dissolved incongruently, leaving residues enriched with aluminium. ::: ::: ::: ::: When accumulated amounts of elements (Si, Al, Na, K) dissolved from nepheline were plotted against time on log-log paper straight lines were obtained. For quartz, kaolinite, and in some cases gibbsite similar plots could be approximated by two straight-line segments. The plots for microcline and oligoclase may be described by a combination of three-line segments. Several possible reaction mechanisms are discussed but a mechanism which explains the similar rate profiles has not yet been formulated.
The goal of eating five servings of fruits and vegetables a day has not yet been achieved. The intake of polyphenols such as anthocyanins (ACN) could be improved by consuming smoothies and juices that are increasingly popular, especially in children; however, bioavailability data concerning food matrix effects are scarce. Thus, we conducted a randomised, cross-over, bioavailability study (n 10) to determine the bioavailability of ACN and their metabolites from an ACN-rich grape/blueberry juice (841 mg ACN/litre) and smoothie (983 mg ACN/litre) in vivo, and the uptake of a corresponding grape/blueberry extract in vitro. After the intake of beverage (0·33 litres), plasma and fractionated urine samples were collected and analysed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to MS. The most abundant ACN found in plasma and urine were malvidin and peonidin as native ACN and as glucuronidated metabolites as well as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB); minor ACN (delphinidin, cyanidin and petunidin) were only detected as native glycosides. Plasma pharmacokinetics and recoveries of urinary metabolites of ACN were not different for juice or smoothie intake; however, the phenolic acid 3,4-DHB was significantly better bioavailable from juice in comparison to smoothie. In vitro data with absorptive intestinal cells indicated that despite their weak chemical stability, ACN and 3,4-DHB could be detected at the basal side in their native forms. Whether smoothies as well as juices should be recommended to increase the intake of potentially health-promoting ACN and other polyphenols requires the consideration of other ingredients such as their relatively high sugar content.
X-band (9.76 GHz) and high field (416.00 GHz) electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy (EPR) was used to study the interactions between Pb(II) ions and semiquinone radicals of natural humic acids and their simple models. The EPR experiments were performed on powder samples. The formation of Pb(II) complexes with the radicals was accompanied by a significant decrease of g parameters as compared to those observed for parent radicals. Two types of complexes were identified depending on the initial concentration of Pb(II) ions. For one of them the anisotropic hyperfine coupling with the (207)Pb nucleus was observed. Systematic DFT calculations were carried out for complexes with different forms of radical ligands (L(2)(-*), HL(-*), and H(2)L*) derived from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid representing different ligation schemes. The g parameters calculated for the structure characterized by a significant accumulation of spin density on the Pb atom are strongly deviated from the values observed experimentally. Moreover, a decrease of the spin population on all oxygen atoms as a result of complexation of Pb(II) via carboxyl oxygens and protonation of hydroxyl oxygens is required to reproduce the experimental g parameters.
Abstract Photochemical and thermal degradation of four anthocyanidins (pelargonidin, delphinidin, malvidin and cyanidin) in aqueous acidic media was studied. The kinetics of the degradation were followed by absorption spectroscopy and high performance liquid chromatography. All anthocyanidins studied have shown a similar thermal degradation pattern. Chalcone was detected as an intermediary product, which undergoes cleavage yielding the final decomposition products, identified as (i) 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde originated from ring A for all four anthocyanidins and (ii) 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid for delphinidin, 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid for malvidin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid for cyanidin, and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid for pelargonidin (all these originated from ring B). During the photochemical degradation, the formation of the same final products as for thermal reaction was observed, but through a different kinetic pathway involving the excitation of the flavylium cation. The substitution of the hydroxyl in position 3 by a glucoside gives rise to a large increase in the thermal stability, and a decrease in the quantum yield of the photochemical reaction.
Antioxidative compounds contained in the leaves of Melissa officinalis L. (lemon balm) were investigated. Six major compounds, protocatechuic acid (or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 1), 2-(3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl)-1,3-benzodioxole-5-aldehvd (2), caffeic acid (3), rosmarinic acid (4), caffeic acid methyl ester (5), and rosmarinic acid methyl ester (6) were isolated from the extract of the plant and the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical scavenging activity was measured. Among them, compound 2 showed the most potent activity, about ten-fold that of ascorbic acid and of α-tocopherol. The compound had a characteristic 1,3-benzodioxole structure and was easily degraded into two molecules of protocatechualdehyde.
Hibiscus acetosella was shown to exert beneficial effects in humans and animal models however, the effects of this plant on DNA are unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the antigenotoxic and antimutagenic effects of H. acetosella extracts on alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) in vivo in mice. Initially, we performed analysis of phenolic compounds in extracts of H. acetosella by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Next, mice were divided into 8 groups and treated with distilled water or plant extract (0.1 ml/10 g) by gavage for 15 days, followed by intraperitoneal (ip) administration of saline solution or MMS (40 mg/Kg b.w) on day 16. Caffeic acid, following by gallic acid, gallocatechin, coumaric acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were found to be present in extracts of H. acetosella leaves. In peripheral blood analysis of groups receiving pretreatment with H. acetosella at doses of 50 or 100 mg/kg plus MMS decreased DNA damage as evidenced by comet assay and Micronucleus assays relative to MMS alone. These results suggested that H. acetosella extracts exerted protective effects dose dependent against genotoxicity and mutagenicity induced by alkylating agents.
The goal of eating five servings of fruits and vegetables a day has not yet been achieved. The intake of polyphenols such as anthocyanins (ACN) could be improved by consuming smoothies and juices that are increasingly popular, especially in children; however, bioavailability data concerning food matrix effects are scarce. Thus, we conducted a randomised, cross-over, bioavailability study (n 10) to determine the bioavailability of ACN and their metabolites from an ACN-rich grape/blueberry juice (841 mg ACN/litre) and smoothie (983 mg ACN/litre) in vivo, and the uptake of a corresponding grape/blueberry extract in vitro. After the intake of beverage (0·33 litres), plasma and fractionated urine samples were collected and analysed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to MS. The most abundant ACN found in plasma and urine were malvidin and peonidin as native ACN and as glucuronidated metabolites as well as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB); minor ACN (delphinidin, cyanidin and petunidin) were only detected as native glycosides. Plasma pharmacokinetics and recoveries of urinary metabolites of ACN were not different for juice or smoothie intake; however, the phenolic acid 3,4-DHB was significantly better bioavailable from juice in comparison to smoothie. In vitro data with absorptive intestinal cells indicated that despite their weak chemical stability, ACN and 3,4-DHB could be detected at the basal side in their native forms. Whether smoothies as well as juices should be recommended to increase the intake of potentially health-promoting ACN and other polyphenols requires the consideration of other ingredients such as their relatively high sugar content.
Hibiscus acetosella was shown to exert beneficial effects in humans and animal models however, the effects of this plant on DNA are unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the antigenotoxic and antimutagenic effects of H. acetosella extracts on alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) in vivo in mice. Initially, we performed analysis of phenolic compounds in extracts of H. acetosella by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Next, mice were divided into 8 groups and treated with distilled water or plant extract (0.1 ml/10 g) by gavage for 15 days, followed by intraperitoneal (ip) administration of saline solution or MMS (40 mg/Kg b.w) on day 16. Caffeic acid, following by gallic acid, gallocatechin, coumaric acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were found to be present in extracts of H. acetosella leaves. In peripheral blood analysis of groups receiving pretreatment with H. acetosella at doses of 50 or 100 mg/kg plus MMS decreased DNA damage as evidenced by comet assay and Micronucleus assays relative to MMS alone. These results suggested that H. acetosella extracts exerted protective effects dose dependent against genotoxicity and mutagenicity induced by alkylating agents.
Lipid-mediated delivery of DNA into cells holds great promise both for gene therapy and basic research applications. This paper describes the efficient and facile synthesis and the characterization of a new multivalent cationic lipid with a double-branched headgroup structure for gene delivery applications. The synthetic scheme can be extended to give cationic lipids of different charge, spacer, or lipid chain length. The chemical and physical properties of self-assembled complexes of the cationic liposomes (CLs) with DNA give indications of why multivalent cationic lipids possess superior transfection properties. The lipid bears a headgroup with five charges in the fully protonated state, which is attached to an unsaturated double-chain hydrophobic moiety based on 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Liposomes consisting of the new multivalent lipid and the neutral lipid 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycerophosphatidylcholine (DOPC) were used to prepare complexes with DNA. Investigations of the structures of these complexes by...
A previous work showed that the night period is important for the occurrence of Fenton-like oxidation of small aromatic acids from biomass burning in atmospheric waters, which originate new chromophoric compounds apparently more complex than the precursors, although the chemical transformations involved in the process are still unknown. In this work were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and by electrospray mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) the organic intermediate compounds formed during the Fenton-like oxidation of three aromatic acids from biomass burning (benzoic, 4-hydroxybenzoic and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids), the same compounds evaluated in the previous study, in water and in the absence of light, which in turns allows to disclose the chemical reaction pathways involved. The oxidation intermediate compounds found for benzoic acid were 2-hydroxybenzoic, 3-hydroxybenzoic, 4-hydroxybenzoic, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. The oxidation intermediates for 4-hydroxybenzoic acid were 3,4-hydroxybenzoic acid and hydroquinone, while for 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid were 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acids, and tetrahydroxybenzene. The results suggested that the hydroxylation of the three small aromatic acids is the main step of Fenton-like oxidation in atmospheric waters during the night, and that the occurrence of decarboxylation is also an important step during the oxidation of the 4-dihydroxybenzoic and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids. In addition, it is important to highlight that the compounds produced are also small aromatic compounds with potential adverse effects on the environment, besides becoming available for further chemical reactions in atmospheric waters.
The Naoxinqing (NXQ) tablet is a standardised proprietary herbal product containing an extract of persimmon leaves (Diospyros kaki) for the management of cardio- and cerebrovascular diseases. Although previous reports suggested that the efficacy of NXQ is at least partly mediated by its anti-oxidative property, the anti-oxidative effect of the major components of NXQ has not been studied systematically. For quality control purposes, only analytical methods limited to 3 marker analytes have been reported, the extent to which the other components affect efficacy has not been explored. In this study, we developed an ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC MS/MS) method for the identification of seven analytes (kaempferol-3-O-glucoside (astragalin), quercetin-3-O-galactoside (hypericin), quercetin-3-O-glucoside (isoquercitin), kaempferol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), and furan-2-carboxylic acid (pyromucic acid) and quercetin) in the NXQ. This is the first method reported and validated for the quantification of the seven major secondary metabolites in NXQ. The results for the quantified analytes were then compared in 15 different batches of NXQ. The variation observed in the seven components highlights the need to quantify key bioactive components to ensure product consistency. Radical scavenging activity and abundance was used to rank the analytes. The anti-oxidative effects of NXQ were examined using cultured human vascular endothelial cells (EA.hy926). Corrected 2,2-di(4-tert-octylphenyl)-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) activity results revealed that quercetin and kaempferol have the strongest anti-oxidant capacity in the extract. Both quercetin and kaempferol significantly inhibited the hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced EA.hy926 cell injury and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. In conclusion, we established and validated an UPLC-MS/MC method for the analysis of major bioactive components in the NXQ and demonstrated that its anti-oxidative property may play a critical role in cerebrovascular protection.
Objective: To study pharmacokinetics of veratric acid in rats. Method: Veratric acid was administrate to rats by oral gavage,blood samples were collected at various time points,HPLC was adopted to determine the content of veratric acid in blood samples by taking 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester as an internal standard,mobile phase of acetonitrile( A)-1% acetic acid( B)( 0-11 min,5%-57% A; 11-13 min, 57%-5% A), detection wavelength was set at 256 nm, plasma concentration-time curve was drawn, pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated by Kinetica 4. 4 software. Result: After oral gavage administration, veratric acid existed secondary peak phenmenon in rats,T max were( 45. 00 ± 10. 00) and( 31. 00 ± 8. 22) min, respectively; C max of high and low dose groups were( 176. 85 ± 28. 89) and( 68. 14 ± 12. 58) mg·L- 1,t 1 /2 were( 87. 74 ±20. 74) and( 227. 18 ± 93. 78) min,AUC 0-∞ were( 50 363. 50 ± 11 667. 7) and( 18 830. 32 ± 4 354. 35) min ·mg ·L- 1,MRT 0-∞ were( 201. 39 ± 16. 72) and( 227. 40 ± 21. 37) min, respectively. Conclusion: Veratric acid had a long in vivo acting time due to its quick absorption and slow elimination.
Three actinomycetes (Streptomyces sp. EC22, Streptomyces viridosporus T7A and Thermomonospora fusca BD25) were assessed for their ability to degrade ball-milled wheat straw. All gave maximum levels of solubilized lignocellulose products (APPL) at the beginning of the stationary phase of growth (72-96 h). Low-molecular-mass aromatic compounds extracted from the APPL were analysed by reverse-phase and gas chromatography. Although the number of chromatographic peaks detected made identification of the products difficult, p-coumaric acid (4-hydroxycinnamic acid), protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid), gallic acid methyl ester (methyl-3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoate) and 4-methoxyphenol were recognized. The infrared spectra of the three strains were similar to the spectra of humic acids, with all APPL extracts showing carbonyl, amino, carboxyl, aliphatic and aromatic group vibrations. Also detected were peptide linkages of proteins. The results suggest a role for actinomycetes in the formation of humic substances in soils and composts.
Cancer and thrombotic diseases are the highest mortality rate of disease in the past few decades, which have attracted the large amounts of funds and research to conquer these problems (Ilies et al. 2002; Okuyama et al. 1997 ). There are a spectrum of therapeutic methodologies for the treatment of cancer, including surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hyperthermia, and photodynamic therapy (Liang et al. 2015) . However, the above methodologies are rarely sufficient to overcome cancers for the limit of each individual therapeutic route, which is also the predicament for the treatment of thrombotic diseases (Liang et al. 2014) . Moreover, following the increase of environmental pollution and social pressure, reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the body will enhance obviously, which results in the senescence and is also the inducement of various diseases such as the cancer (Stich and Anders 1989) and thrombotic diseases (Iuliano et al. 1994) . Recently, increasing attention has focused on the preventive medicine and health products from foods or some herbaceous plants, which would effectively prevent the above diseases (Chang and So 2008) . The focus has been gradually shifted away from the basic supplements of nutrition and energy to health-enhancing ingredients with (Masella et al. 2012) . Thus, how to extract and synthesize the bioactive and avirulent constituents from plants and foods will tremendously promote development of prevention of cancer and thrombotic diseases. In many herbal and traditional medicines, phenolic acids are often treated as the bioactive constituents, which as the secondary plant metabolites are universally present in nature, plants, and plant-derived foods (Harborne 1980) . In our previous research, a series of phenolic acids and their derivatives bound to bovine serum albumin with high avidity, indicate that they might be carried by serum albumin to therapeutic targets (Luo et al. 2013; Meng et al. 2012; Wei et al. 2014) . Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) contains hydroxybenzoic structures in naturally occurring phenolic acids and is present in many plants (Shahidi et al. 1992) . Protocatechuic acid possesses a wide spectrum of biological effects, including antioxidative (Kayano et al. 2002) , free-radical quenching (Tseng et al. 1996) , and antimicrobial properties (Alves et al. 2013) . Therefore, it can inhibit oxidation processes and protect the body from damaging oxidation reactions, which may have beneficial effects in health promoting, inflammation (Wang et al. 2014) , neuroprotective influences (Guan et al. 2006) , and mutagenesis leading to carcinogenesis (Tanaka et al. 2011; Tseng et al. 1998; Yin et al. 2009 ). Moreover, protocatechuic acid would enhance the antiplatelet effect in therapeutic interventions due to the fact that reactive oxygen species play a crucial role in blood coagulation (Iuliano et al. 1997; Pignatelli et al. 1998 ). Furthermore, protocatechuic acid is an apoptosis inducer in human leukemia cells (Tseng et al. 2000) and possesses antiatherogenic (Wang et al. 2012 ) and cardioprotective effects (Semaming et al. 2014) . In addition, thrombin plays a pivotal role in the processes of hemostasis and thrombosis (Hemker 1993) . A safe and effective inhibitor of thrombin might be utilized in treatments for venous thrombosis, atrial fibrillation, restenosis, arterial thrombosis, and for the prevention of myocardial infarction (Kimball 1995) . A previous study showed that protocatechuic acid reduced plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 activity and fibrinogen levels ), demonstrating a superior anticoagulatory effect, which indicated that protocatechuic acid would possess the ability of inhibition of thrombin activity. The above discussion indicated that protocatechuic acid contained multifunctional activities such as antioxidation, free-radical scavenging, anticancer, and inhibition of thrombin activity. Therefore, how to synthesize the more effectiveness of protocatechuic acid derivatives with the improved activities will promote the development of medical science and preventive medicine.
In this study, the amide derivatives of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) were synthesized, while compounds WF, WN were first obtained. The amido providers were paminomethylbenzoic acid, tranexamic acid, 6-aminocaproic acid, and taurine, which all have the amido and the carboxyl active group (sulfonic group) in the structure. The differing characteristics of the amido providers were the length of the carbon chain and the unsaturated or saturated hexatomic ring between the aminomethylene group and the terminal carboxylic (sulfonic group). The multifunctional activities of the hydroxybenzamide structure prompted us to conduct a study to evaluate some of the activities exerted by these derivatives. The antioxidant activities of these derivatives were examined using DPPH radical scavenging and reducing power assays, which indicated that compounds 1 and its derivatives possessed the superior antioxidant activities. A novel evaluation of the inhibitory effects of protocatechuic acid and its amide derivatives on thrombin was performed using the chromogenic method (Chromozym-TH), and was found that compounds 1 and hydroxybenzamide derivatives WH, WN exhibited thrombin inhibition ability. Moreover, in vitro antitumor activities of these derivatives against three tumor cell lines, A2780 (human ovarian carcinoma cells), MCF-7 (human breast cancer cells), K562 (human chronic myelogenous leukemia cells), were evaluated by the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Compounds 1 and four derivatives have the well anticancer activity and excellent biocompatibility, which have the potential application in the prevention and treatment of cancer. Therefore, in view of their wide range of pharmacological and biological activities, these novel hydroxybenzamide derivatives have great potential in food supplements or health product for therapeutic interventions and disease prevention of cancer, thrombotic diseases, and aging.
The Naoxinqing (NXQ) tablet is a standardised proprietary herbal product containing an extract of persimmon leaves (Diospyros kaki) for the management of cardio-and cerebrovascular diseases. Although previous reports suggested that the efficacy of NXQ is at least partly mediated by its anti-oxidative property, the anti-oxidative effect of the major components of NXQ has not been studied systematically. For quality control purposes, only analytical methods limited to 3 marker analytes have been reported, the extent to which the other components affect efficacy has not been explored. In this study, we developed an ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC MS/MS) method for the identification of seven analytes (kaempferol-3-O -glucoside (astragalin), quercetin-3-O-galactoside (hypericin), quercetin-3-O-glucoside (isoquercitin), kaempferol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), and furan-2-carboxylic acid (pyromucic acid) and quercetin) in the NXQ. This is the first method reported and validated for the quantification of the seven major secondary metabolites in NXQ. The results for the quantified analytes were then compared in 15 different batches of NXQ. The variation observed in the seven components highlights the need to quantify key bioactive components to ensure product consistency. Radical scavenging activity and abundance was used to rank the analytes. The anti-oxidative effects of NXQ were examined using cultured human vascular endothelial cells (EA.hy926). Corrected 2,2-di(4-tert-octylphenyl)-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) activity results revealed that quercetin and kaempferol have the strongest anti-oxidant capacity in the extract. Both quercetin and kaempferol significantly inhibited the hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 )-induced EA.hy926 cell injury and intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. In conclusion, we established and validated an UPLC-MS/ MC method for the analysis of major bioactive components in the NXQ and demonstrated that its anti-oxidative property may play a critical role in cerebrovascular protection.
Although quercetin and kaempferol may be the major actives, this has not been systematically tested and the contribution of the other 39 reported polyphenols [23] has not been explored. There is a lack of validated analytical methods to quantify the other major component, with only up to 3 analytes being reported [24] . In this study we established an ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) method for quantitation of several major analytes including kaempferol-3-O-glucoside (astragalin), quercetin-3-O-galactoside (hypericin), quercetin-3-O-glucoside (isoquercitin), kaempferol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), furan-2-carboxylic acid (pyromucic acid) and quercetin in NXQ. Furthermore, the concentrations of the analytes were tested in 15 batches of NXQ. The free radical scavenging property of the antioxidant components of the NXQ were assessed and ranked by 2,2-di(4-tert-octylphenyl)-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2 -azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid (ABTS) assays. Finally, the anti-oxidative property of the top two ranked free radical scavengers was evaluated using cultured human endothelial cell line, EA.hy926.
Pyridoxal phosphate was obtained from Calbiochem (U.S.A.) and DL-[1-14C]glutamate (13.1 Ci/ mole) from New England Nuclear (U.S.A.). Glutathione (reduced form) and 3-mercaptopropionic acid were purchased from Sigma (U.S.A.). 2-Hydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic
A PREVIOUS study has evaluated the role of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) (procatechuic acid) in the genesis of the uremic syndrome. 1 Like its 2,4-dihydroxy isomer (2,4-DHBA) (β-resorcylic acid), 3,4-DHBA hastened paresis, prostration, and death and contributed to cardiac dysfunction in rats in acute renal failure. Unlike the 2,4-isomer which seemed to produce depression, 3,4-DHBA contributed to exacerbation of signs of nervous system hyperexcitability. Myoclonic jerks, muscle spasms, grand mal seizures, and spontaneous electroencephalographic seizure activity characterized rats receiving 3,4-DHBA. Electroencephalographic and behavioral differences were not clearly correlated with differences in urea or electrolyte concentrations. The initial investigation, therefore, suggested that 3,4-DHBA produced nervous system hyperexcitability; whereas 2,4-DHBA, differing only in the position of one hydroxyl group, produced neuromuscular depression. The present study was undertaken as an attempt to corroborate these findings by an independent method and to compare the effects of these and related compounds on seizure threshold
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the phenol constituents from Pachysandra terminalis and their antioxidant activities. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: Constituent isolation and purification was carried by repeated column chromatography (silica gel, Toyopearl HW-40 and preparative HPLC), and their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectral data analysis. DPPH method was used to evaluate the free radical scavenging activity of the isolated compounds. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: Nine phenol compounds (1-9) were isolated and their structures were identified as follow: p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (1), vanillin (2), 1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl) -ethanone (3), syringaldehyde (4), salicylic acid (5), p-hydroxybenzoic acid (6), ferulic acid (7), 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid (8), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (9). The isolated compounds showed obviously antioxidant activity. At the concentration of 50 micromol x L(-1), compounds 7-9 revealed DPPH free radical scavenging rates were 87.8%, 97.8% and 92%, respectively. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Compounds 1-9 were isolated from this genus for the first time. They showed the significant antioxidant activity.
Characterization of phenolic compounds in olive oil has not been achieved as yet, owing to the complexities of their chemical structures and analytical matrix. The aim of this work is to optimize and validate a method for simultaneous separation and quantification of 13 phenolic compounds from extra-virgin olive oil: tyrosol, hydroxytyrosol, oleuropein glycoside, ferrulic acid, p-coumaric acid, cinnamic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid, caffeic acid, luteolin, apigenin, vanillic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. A statistical central composite design, response surface analysis and the simultaneous optimization method of Derringer and Suich were used to separate all the peaks. These multivariate procedures were efficient in determining the optimal separation condition, using five peak-pair resolutions and runtime as responses. The optimized method employed a fused-silica capillary of 50 μm i.d.× 60 cm effective length with extended light path, 50 mmol L(-1) boric acid electrolyte, 10.2 pH, 25°C, injection of 50 mbar for 25s with application of reverse voltage (-30 kV for 5s) before setting the running voltage (+30 kV) with detection at 210 nm and a run time of 12 min. Peak resolutions are found to be very sensitive to pH values outside the 10.15-10.25 range but acceptable electropherograms can be obtained for a wide range of boric acid concentrations within this pH interval.
The phenol compositions of two cultivars of carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) namely “Gloriana” and “Roland”, which are partially and highly resistant, respectively, to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi have been investigated with the aim of determining if endogenous phenols could have an anti-fungal effect against the pathogen. Analyses were performed on healthy and F. oxysporum-inoculated in vitro tissues, and on in vivo plants. Two benzoic acid derivatives, protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid), were found within healthy and inoculated tissues of both cultivars, together with the flavonol glycoside peltatoside (3-[6-O-(α-L-arabinopyranosyl)-β-D-glucopyranosyl] quercetin). These molecules proved to be only slightly inhibitory towards the pathogen. 2,6-Dimethoxybenzoic acid was detected in small amounts only in the inoculated cultivar “Gloriana”, while the highly resistant cultivar “Roland” showed the presence of the flavone datiscetin (3,5,7,2′-tetrahydroxyflavone). The latter compound exhibited an appreciable fungitoxic activity towards F. oxysporum f. sp. dianthi. Copyright © 2003 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
To investigate the conversion of lignin derivatives to biopolyesters, 11 polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA)-accumulating strains were cultured on mineral salt media containing each of the 18 lignin derivatives and hydroxybenzoic acids, including intermediates derived from the metabolism of lignin derivatives in bacteria. Most of the strains grew poorly in media containing lignin derivatives such as p-coumaric acid, caffeic acid, ferulic acid, and sinapinic acid. One of the strains, Pseudomonas putida Gpo1, grew in the presence of p-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, vanillic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). Pseudomonas putida JCM 13063 also grew in the presence of 4-HBA, 3,4-DHBA, and vanillic acid. Another strain, Ralstonia eutropha H16, synthesized PHA from 4-HBA, 2,5-DHBA, and 3,4-DHBA. On the basis of the data obtained from these experiments, we suggest that the conversion of lignin derivatives into intermediates such as 4-HBA, 2,5-DHBA, 3,4-DHBA, and vanillic acid repr...
To prepare the cocrystals of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) with GRAS status coformers via a cocrystallization technique with an aim to improve physicochemical properties as well as bioavailability for colon cancer, breast cancer, and prostate cancer. The mechanochemical method was used in the preparations of three crystals of 5-FU with gentisic acid (5-FUGA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5-FUBA), and 4-aminopyridine (5-FUPN). A thermoanalytical and spectroscopic technique was used for their characterization. Their biological evaluation was done in different cancer cell lines. The new solid pure crystal forms were characterized by DSC, FTIR, and PXRD. The crystal structure was determined from single crystal and PXRD that exposed the existence of the monoclinic and triclinic crystal system with P21/n and P-1 space groups. The dermatokinetic studies on the rat skin revealed two- to threefold improvement in relative bioavailability as compared to pure 5-FU. “MTT assay was performed by varying the concentrations of the drug from 1 to 50 μg mL−1. After 24 h, the cell viability dropped to 70.67%, 74.05%, and 76.37% in MCF-7, Hela, and Caco-2 cell lines when the concentration of 5-FU was 50 μg mL−1”, while it dropped dramatically in cocrystals 5-FUGA (22.06%, 24.63%, and 25.61%), 5-FUBA (31.22%, 29.46%, and 32.81%), and 5-FUPN (21.65%, 32.64%, and 21.46%). All the results indicated that 5-FU cocrystals possess better antitumor efficacy than free drug. Thus, cocrystallization expands the extent of the existing pre-formulation options ahead of pure API form to ameliorate the bioavailability and permeability.
The root bark of Annona cuneata Oliv. is traditionally used in the Democratic Republic of Congo to treat several debilitating conditions, such as hernia, female sterility, sexual asthenia, and parasitic infections. However, little is known about the composition of the secondary plant substances, which may contribute to these traditional medicinal effects. We conducted an ethnobotanical study and then evaluated the composition of the secondary plant substances in extracts of the root bark by using spectroscopic methods. After delipidation, the root bark was lixiviated in methanol, and components in the extract were studied by gas chromatography-mass spectometry, high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)-electrospray ionization-MS and nano-electrospray ionization-MS-MS. These methods identified 13 secondary plant substances (almost exclusively phenolic compounds): p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (I), vanillin (II), tyrosol (III), 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (IV), p-hydroxybenzoic acid (V), vanillyl alcohol (VI), syringaldehyde (VII), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylethanol (VIII), vanillic acid (IX), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (X), syringic acid (XI), and ferulic acid (XII), along with the phytosterol squalene (XIII). In the HPLC-based hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase antioxidant assay system, the methanolic extract exhibited potent antioxidant capacity, with a 50% inhibitory concentration of 72 μL, equivalent to 1.38 mg/mL of raw extract. Thus, a methanol extract of A. cuneata Oliv. contained a range of polyphenolic compounds, which may be partly responsible for its known traditional medicinal effects. More detailed studies on the phytochemistry of this important plant species are therefore warranted.
Ozonated water dip technique was evaluated for the detoxification of six pesticides, i.e., chlorpyrifos, cypermethrin, azoxystrobin, hexaconazole, methyl parathion, and chlorothalonil from apple fruits. Results revealed that ozonation was better than washing alone. Ozonation for 15 min decreased residues of the test pesticides in the range of from 26.91 to 73.58%, while ozonation for 30 min could remove the pesticide residues by 39.39-95.14 % compared to 19.05-72.80 % by washing. Cypermethrin was the least removed pesticide by washing as well as by ozonation. Chlorothalonil, chlorpyrifos, and azoxystrobin were removed up to 71.45-95.14 % in a 30-min ozonation period. In case of methyl parathion removal, no extra advantage could be obtained by ozonation. The HPLC analysis indicated that ozonation also affected adversely the ascorbic acid and cyanidin-3-glucoside content of apples. However, 11 polyphenols studied showed a mixed trend. Gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catechin, epicatechin, p-coumaric acid, quercetin-3-O-glucoside, quercetin, and kaempferol were found to decrease while syringic acid, rutin, and resveratrol were found to increase in 30-min ozonation.
Amberlite XAD resin are widely used for modification with chelating materials due to its good physical and chemical properties such as porosity, high surface area, durability and purity. Many ligands, such as chronotropic acid [14] , α-nitrozo β-naphtol [15] , salicylic acid [16] , pyrocathecol [17] , 1-(2-pyridiazo)-2-naphtol [18] , O-amino benzoic acid [19] , 2-(methylthio) aniline [20] , 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid [21] , 2-aminothiophenol [22] , and succinic acid [23] were covalently coupled with a polymer backbone through an azo (-N = N-) [24, 25] , methylene (-CH 2 -) [26] or other groups [27, 28] . There are many reports of functionalized Amberlite XAD 2, 4 and 7 resins in this respect [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] [36] [37] .
Abstract A number of auxotrophs of Aerobacter aerogenes requiring aromatic amino acids for growth have been shown to excrete o -dihydric phenols when incubated with a mixture of glucose, phosphate, magnesium and ammonium ions. Auxotrophs requiring histidine, methionine, cysteine or leucine do not excrete these substances under similar conditions. An auxotroph requiring tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan for growth but unable to grow on shikimic acid accumulates a mixture of 3,4-dihydroxy-benzoic acid and catechol. A tryptophan auxotroph able to utilise anthranilic acid for growth accumulates 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol. A tyrosine auxotroph able to utilise 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid has been shown to accumulate 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol. Catechol may arise consequent on 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid accumulation since suspensions of wild type A. aerogenes form catechol from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Such suspensions also metabolise 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol to compounds not possessing the o -dihydric phenol structure when aerated in the absence of glucose. l -Tryptophan inhibits the accumulation of o -dihydric phenols by three different tryptophan auxotrophs of A. aerogenes but has no effect on the accumulation of these compounds by a tyrosine auxotroph or an auxotroph requiring tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan for growth. The possible relationship of these o -dihydric phenols to the biosynthesis of aromatic compounds is discussed.
In this paper,the reaction of cadmium carbonate with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,2,2'-bipyridine yield the coordination compound[Cd(C7H5O4)2·(H2O)3·2H2O(1).The property of complexes were determined by single-crystal X-ray,element analysis,IR spectra,TG and Luminescent spectrum.The complex belongs to monoclinic,P2(1)/c space group.Cell parameters,Z=4,a=0.78338(8)nm,b=1.98658(19)nm,c=1.22359(12)nm,α=90°,β=105.8920(10)°,γ=90°.The spatial configuration of central ion Cd(II)is distorted pentagonal bipyramid.In the crystal structure,intermolecular and intramolecular O-H…O hydrogen bonds link the components into a three-dimensional network.
The optimum conditions for cell suspension culture experiments have been characterized by respiration,p-Phenylenediamine oxidase and growth of cell suspension ofNicotiana tabacum for 15 days in stationary culture. Change of 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic and 4-Hydroxybenzoic acids both present at 10−4 M in culture medium were studied in short term experiments. An oxidation product of 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid characterized by an absorption maximum at 280 nm was isolated after 1 h of incubation. The 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid did not change when incubated for 4 h under the same conditions.
A ternary deep eutectic solvent (TDES) was used as both template and functional monomer in the synthesis of TDES-based molecularly imprinted polymers (TDES-MIPs). A meticulous miniaturized solid-phase microextraction (mini-SPME) method followed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were used for the optimal speciation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) in the needle of a syringe system with response surface methodology (RSM). Under the optimal conditions for the determination of 3,4-DHBA (amount of adsorbent (2 mg), sample volume (1 mL), cycles for adsorption and desorption (6)), the actual extraction amount was 8.46 μg g−1. The limits of detection (LODs, S/N = 3) for 3,4-DHBA in Ilex chinensis Sims were 0.26–0.31 μg mL−1, and the intra-day and inter-day precision (relative standard deviations, n = 4) after spiking with 5 μg mL−1, 100 μg mL−1, and 200 μg mL−1 were both less than 4.21%. The meticulous method (TDES-MIP-mini-SPME) combined with RSM offers a significant advance over existing methods, because of the meticulous operation and excellent selectivity of 3,4-DHBA from complex samples.
Abstract Mate herb, Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil., is a plant cultivated in South America. Studies have evidenced the presence of phenolic compounds in mate herb, however, there are no reports on the contents of these compounds in different types of mate herb sold in the South Region of Brazil. In this study, capillary zone electrophoresis was used to quantify phenolic compounds in three lots of each of four types of commercial mate herb (traditional, native, large ground, and suave). Analysis was performed before and after acid hydrolysis. Hydrolysis time, temperature and chloridric acid concentration were optimized by central composite design to maximize the amounts of free phenolic compounds obtained after hydrolysis. Before hydrolysis, high amounts of rutin were detected, while after hydrolysis, high amounts of caffeic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were obtained, giving evidence that mate herb should be further investigated as a major source of these compounds.
The kinetics of reaction of benzene-1,2-diol, (–)-4-[1-hydroxy-2(methylamino)ethyl]benzene-1,2-diol, 3-methylbenzene-1,2-diol, 4-methylbenzene-1,2-diol, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzonitrile with CoIII in aqueous acidic perchlorate media have been investigated with the stopped-flow method, at different temperatures (7.5–35 °C), acidities(0.20–2.00 mol dm–3 HClO4), and I= 2.0 mol dm–3(Na[ClO4]). The reactions are first order in the concentrations of both reactants and the dependence of the second order rate constants on acidity is given by the expression k0=A+B[H+]–1. This behaviour is explained by assuming the formation of two differently protonated activated complexes. The substitutents largely effect the contribution of the path which is independent of acidity and involves Co3+(aq), and a linear relation between ΔG‡ and ΔG⊖ suggests an outer-sphere mechanism. However, the path involving [Co(OH)]2+(aq) is not affected by the nature of the organic substrate: because of its high rate with respect to water substitution, an outer-sphere limiting mechanish is advanced.
Methyl gallate, butyl gallate, octyl gallate, and octyl 4-hydroxybenzoate were purchased from Wako Pure Chemical Industries (Osaka, Japan); gallic acid, propyl gallate, and hyaluronidase (from bovine testes) were from Nacalai Tesque (Kyoto, Japan); ethyl gallate, dodecyl gallate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3-hydroxybenzoic acid were from Tokyo Chemical Industry (Tokyo); hyaluronic acid sodium salt (from rooster comb) and collagenase (from Clostridium histolyticum; type IV) were from Sigma; Pz-peptide (Pz-Pro-Leu-Gly-Pro-D-Arg-OH) was from Bachem (Bubendorf, Switzerland); and recombinant human matrix-metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and Fluorogenic Peptide Substrate IX (Mca-Lys-Pro-Leu-Gly-Leu-Dpa-Ala-Arg-NH 2 ) were from R&D systems (Minneapolis, MN).
Mate herb, Ilex paraguariensis St. Hil., is a plant cultivated in South America. Studies have evidenced the presence of phenolic compounds in mate herb, however, there are no reports on the contents of these compounds in different types of mate herb sold in the South Region of Brazil. In this study, capillary zone electrophoresis was used to quantify phenolic compounds in three lots of each of four types of commercial mate herb (traditional, native, large ground, and suave). Analysis was performed before and after acid hydrolysis. Hydrolysis time, temperature and chloridric acid concentration were optimized by central composite design to maximize the amounts of free phenolic compounds obtained after hydrolysis. Before hydrolysis, high amounts of rutin were detected, while after hydrolysis, high amounts of caffeic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were obtained, giving evidence that mate herb should be further investigated as a major source of these compounds.
When 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (homoprotocatechuic acid) was added to Pseudomonase acidovorans growing at the expense of succinate, enzymes required for degrading homoprotocatechuate to pyruvate and succinate semialdehyde were strongly induced. These enzymes were effectively absent from cell extracts of the organism grown with 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and this substrate was metabolized by the catabolic enzymes of the homogentisate pathway. Two separate ring-fission dioxygenases for 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid) were present in cell extracts of Pseudomonas putida when grown with syringic acid, and gallate was degraded by reactions associated with meta fission. One of the two gallate dioxygenases also attacked 3-O-methylgallic acid; the other, which did not, was induced when cells were exposed to gallate. This organism possessed ortho fission enzymes, including protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (EC 1.13.11.3) and cis,cis-carboxymuconate-lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.2), after induction with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid). Gallate was a substrate for protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, with a Vmax about 3% of that of protocatechuate and with an apparent Km slightly lower. Gallate was a powerful competitive inhibitor of protocatechuate oxidation.
Abstract A new chromatographic method utilizing the hydrogen bonding properties of Sephadex LH-20 gel in methanol / chloroform, was developed for the isolation of phenolic acids. This method was applied to the characterization of phenolic acids in flue-cured tobacco. Gel chromatography successfully isolated and concentrated the phenolic acids from other acidic substances and allowed identification and quantitation of these compounds by GC and GC-MS, as their trimethylsilyl derivatives. Compounds identified included: cis- and trans-isomers of p-coumaric, ferulic, caffeic, and sinapic acids; o-, m-, and p-hydroxybenzoic acids; o-hydroxyphenylacetic acid; 2,5- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids; and 2,3-, 2,5- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehydes. Caffeic acid was the major compound, probably arising from the degradation of the chlorogenic acid of leaf. Aliphatic acids having two or more carboxyl groups were also isolated and included the following: malonic, succinic, fumaric, malic, and citric acids. A dihydroxycinnamaldehyde and a dihydroxynaphthoic acid are reported in tobacco leaf for the first time.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) is a natural phenolic compound found in many edible and medicinal plants. Recent studies indicate that it could be used as a protective agent against cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms. The mechanism of its action is mostly associated with antioxidant activity, including inhibition of generation as well as scavenging of free radicals and up-regulating enzymes which participate in their neutralization. The influence on phase I and II of some carcinogens' metabolism and, perhaps, direct blocking of specific binding sites of ultimate carcinogens with DNA molecule, thus preventing adduct formation that may result in mutations and neoplastic transformation, are also important. However, the other aspects of the chemopreventive activity of protocatechuic acid including influence on the activity of inducible isoenzyme of cyclooxygenase and nitric oxide synthase or cell cycle regulating proteins are not fully evaluated.
The cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP199A4, from Rhodopseudomonas palustris strain HaA2, can efficiently demethylate 4-methoxybenzoic acid via hemiacetal formation and subsequent elimination of formaldehyde. Oxidative demethylation of a methoxy group para to the carboxyl moiety is strongly favoured over reaction at one in the ortho or meta positions. Dimethoxybenzoic acids containing a para-methoxy group were also efficiently demethylated exclusively at the para position. The presence of additional methoxy substituents reduces the substrate binding affinity and the activity compared to 4-methoxybenzoic acid. The addition of the smaller hydroxy group to the ortho or meta positions or of a nitrogen heteroatom in the aromatic ring of the 4-methoxybenzoate skeleton was better tolerated by the enzyme and these analogues were also readily demethylated. There was no evidence of methylenedioxy ring formation with 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid, an activity which is observed with certain plant CYP enzymes with analogous substrates. CYP199A4 is also able to deprotect the methylenedioxy group of 3,4-(methylenedioxy)benzoic acid to yield 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and formic acid. This study defines the substrate range of CYP199A4 and reveals that substrates without a para substituent are not oxidised with any significant activity. Therefore para-substituted benzoic acids are ideal substrate scaffolds for the CYP199A4 enzyme and will aid in the design of optimised probes to investigate the mechanism of this class of enzymes. They also allow an assessment of the potential of CYP199A4 for synthetic biocatalytic processes involving selective oxidative demethylation or demethenylation.
OBJECTIVE To develop an HPLC method for the determination of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in red blood cells.METHODS Based on the COMT catalysed reaction,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was conversed to 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-OH-3-MBA ) with S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) as methyl donor 1.20 μL supernatant was quantitated by HPLC-ECD after precipitating protein of reaction production by perchloric acid.The specific COMT activity was calculated as 4-OH-3-MBA concentration against the protein content per minute in the sample.4-OH-3-MBA was quantitated by the high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using Nova-pak C18 column (3.9 mm×150 mm,4 μm).The mobile phase consisted of 0.1 mol·L-1 NaH2PO4·2H2O (with 0.15 mmol·L-1 EDTA): methanol (85∶15) and adjusted to pH 3.2 with phosphoric acid. Column temperature was 25 ℃. The flow rate was 0.8 mL·min-1 and the detection electrode was +900 mV.RESULTS The linear concentration range was 0.2-6 μmol·L-1 with good correlation of coefficient 0.9997(n=6).The detection limit was 0.02 μmol·L-1.The RSDs of within day and between days were less than 8% for low, middle and high concentration samples.The recoveries were between 96.0% and 100.3% (n=6).CONCLUSION The method is sensitive, accurate, precise and specific. It is suitable for the determination of COMT activity of human red blood cells.
The electrochemical behavior of 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid(DHBA)on modified multiply wall carbon nanotubes electrode was investigated by cyclic voltammetry(CV) and square wave voltammetry(SWV).Results show that in 0.1 mol/L HCl solutions the modified carbon nanotube electrode has an obvious electrocatalytic effect on the oxidation and deoxidization of DHBA.The oxidation current of DHBA is linear to it's concentration in the range of 4.0×10~(-6)～1.0×10~(-4) mol/L and 2.0×10~(-4)～8.0×10~(-4)1mol/L with correlation coefficient of 0.9995 and 0.9992.The detection limit is 1.0 ×10~(-6)mol/ L.
Ascorbic acid improves endothelial barrier function by decreasing the permeability of endothelial cells cultured on semi-porous membrane filters. This decrease was not due to enhanced collagen synthesis and was mimicked by the collagen synthesis inhibitor ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (EDHB). Since EDHB is known to chelate intracellular free iron, the effects of two membrane-permeant iron chelators were tested on endothelial permeability. Both 2,2'-dipyridyl and desferrioxamine decreased trans-endothelial permeability in a concentration-dependent manner. Increasing intracellular iron with a chelate of 8-hydroxyquinoline and ferric iron prevented effects of both EDHB and intracellular ascorbate. That EDHB and ascorbate did in fact chelate intracellular iron was supported by finding that they both decreased the cellular fluorescence quenching of the iron-sensitive dye Phen green SK. These results show that chelation of intracellular iron decreases endothelial barrier permeability and implicate this mechanism in the ability of EDHB and possibly intracellular ascorbate to tighten the endothelial barrier.
Humic acids (HA) are able to interact with a wide range of pollulants and can influence their solubility, transport and bioavailability. In order to study the interaction between polar aromatic hydrocarbons and these macromolecules, an affinity capillary electrophoretic method, the Hummel-Dreyer (HD) method in its modified version, has been used. Two acidic metabolites of phenanthrene: 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid (1-HNA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DBA) were studied. The analysis for the binding studies was carried out by injecting a solution of HA in 25 mM ammonium hydrogen carbonate buffer (pH 9) into an uncoated fused-silica capillary, filled with buffer solutions of 1-HNA or 3,4-DBA in varying and increasing amounts. The results obtained indicate that both compounds bind to HA, as had been confirmed by dialysis experiments and literature data. CE proved to be a useful technique for investigating the link between xenobiotics and environmental macromolecules.
A new chromatographic catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) assay based on S-adenosyl-l-[methyl-14C]methionine and on-line radioactivity detection was developed. With minor modifications in the mobile phase composition the methylation velocities for 30 structurally diverse compounds including simple catechols, neurotransmitters, catecholestrogens and catecholic drugs could be measured using human and rat recombinant soluble COMT. The enzymes showed very similar substrate selectivities. The radiochemical method was validated using 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as a model substrate and it was shown that accurate and reproducible methylation velocity values could be achieved for both of the catecholic hydroxyls. The method proved to be suited for determining the enzyme kinetic parameters and can probably be further used for gathering enzyme kinetic data on differentially substituted catechols in order to construct proper structure-activity relationships for COMT.
The present study investigated the species level based microbial community and metabolome in corn silage inoculated with or without homofermentative Lactobacillus plantarum and heterofermentative Lactobacillus buchneri using the PacBio SMRT Sequencing and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF/MS). Chopped whole crop corn was treated with (1) deionized water (control), (2) Lactobacillus plantarum, or (3) Lactobacillus buchneri. The chopped whole crop corn was ensiled in vacuum-sealed polyethylene bags containing 300 g of fresh forge for 90 d, with 3 replicates for each treatment. The results showed that a total 979 substances were detected, and 316 different metabolites were identified. Some metabolites with antimicrobial activity were detected in whole crop corn silage, such as catechol, 3-phenyllactic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, azelaic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxycinnamic acid. Catechol, pyrogallol and ferulic acid with antioxidant property, 4-hydroxybutyrate with nervine activity, and linoleic acid with cholesterol lowering effects, were detected in present study. In addition, flavouring agent of myristic acid and depression mitigation substance of phenylethylamin were also found in this study. Samples treated with inoculants showed much more some biofunctional metabolites of organic acids, amino acids and phenolic acids than untreated samples. Lactobacillus species covered over 98% after ensiling, and mainly comprised by the L. acetotolerans, L. silagei, L. parafarraginis, L. buchneri and L. odoratitofui. As compared to the control silage, inoculation of L. plantarum increased the relative abundances of L. acetotolerans, L. buchneri and L. parafarraginis, and a considerable decline in the proportion of L. silagei was observed; whereas obvious decease in L. acetotolerans and increases in L. odoratitofui and L. farciminis were observed in the L. buchneri inoculated silage. Therefore, inoculation of L. plantarum and L. buchneri regulated the microbial composition and metabolome of the corn silage with different behaviours. The present results indicated that profiling of silage microbiome and metabolome might improve our current understanding of the biological process underlying silage formation.
A comparative adsorption kinetics, isotherms, dissolution and surface complexation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (catechol) at the hematite/electrolyte interface were investigated. The kinetics at pH 10 and 298.15K suggested that the adsorption behaviour of 3,4-DHBA and catechol onto hematite surface is similar and attain same equilibration time of 60 min. The adsorption kinetics data of 3,4-DHBA and catechol fit the pseudo-second-order kinetic equation of nonlinear form best. The adsorption density of 3,4-DHBA at pH≥9 increases and thereby mimics the behaviour of catechol. The solubility of hematite depends on both pH of the suspension and concentration of adsorbate. The inner-sphere complex is formed by 3,4-DHBA and catechol onto hematite surface but the mode orientation is likely to be different in the pH range 5-8 and 9-10. The advance microscopic scanning in conjunction with the vibration spectroscopy would provide better pictorial presentation of the mode of orientation of 3,4-DHBA and catechol onto hematite surface at different pH.
Abstract Phytochemical investigation of the aerial parts of Berchemiella wilsonii (Schneid.) Nakai (Rhamnaceae) led to the isolation of four flavonoids (1–4), three phenolic acids (5–7), two megastigmane derivatives (8–9) and one triterpene (10). The structures of these compounds were elucidated as taxifolin (1), (−)-epicatechin (2), quercetin 3-O-a- l -arabinopyranoside (3), vitexin (4), methyl p-hydroxycinnamat (5), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (6), 2-hydroxy-4-methoxy-3,6-dimethyl benzoic acid (7), (3S,5R,6R,7E,9S)-3,5,6,9-tetrahydroxy-7-en-megastigmane (8), (6S,9R)-roseoside (9) and lupeol (10) on the basis of NMR spectral data and comparison with literature values. These results are the first chemical constituent data of the genus Berchemiella, and the chemotaxonomic significance of these compounds is discussed.
Abstract The vapor pressures of the liquid 2,4- 2,6- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids were determined by thermogravimetry (TG) under both isothermal and non-isothermal conditions, respectively. D.s.c. and isothermal measurements after a thermal treatment were used to verify that no appreciable decomposition process occurs in the three isomers investigated in the temperature range considered. From the temperature dependence of vapor pressure derived by the experimental data the molar enthalpies of vaporization Δ l g H m ° ( 〈 T 〉 ) were determined, respectively, at the middle 〈 T 〉 of the respective temperature intervals. The melting temperatures and the molar enthalpies of fusion of these compounds were measured by d.s.c. The vapor pressures of these compounds in the solid state, measured by torsion-effusion technique, were compared with recently published data, while the corresponding molar sublimation enthalpies were determined. In order to validate the vapor pressure results determined by TG, the experimental vapor pressure data regarding solid ferrocene and 1,2-dihydroxybenzoic acid were successfully compared with literature values in the range 20–200 Pa. In addition, the experimental molar enthalpies of fusion were compared with those calculated by subtracting the molar vaporization enthalpies to the sublimation ones, both adjusted to their respective melting temperatures. Finally, the standard ( p ° = 0.1 MPa) molar enthalpies, entropies and Gibbs energies of sublimation, corrected at the reference temperature of 298.15 K, have been calculated using the estimated heat capacity differences between gas and liquid for vaporization experiments and the estimated heat capacity differences between gas and solid for sublimation experiments. From the averages of the Δ cr g G m ° ( 298.15 K ) values the following increasing-order of volatility can be established for these three isomers, on the basis of the occurrence of intra -molecular and inter -molecular hydrogen bonds: 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid
Abstract As a part of our study on the analysis of bioactive secondary metabolites, we used bioactivity-guided fractionation and isolation methods to isolate five compounds from the ethylacetate-soluble fraction of the aleurone layer of Oryza sativa cv. Heugjinjubyeo , a highly developed rice cultivar; 4-carboethoxy-6-hydroxy-2-quinolone ( 1 ), ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( 2 ), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylacetic acid ( 3 ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( 4 ), and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy cinnamic acid ( 5 ). These compounds showed significant antioxidant activity in a concentration-dependent manner through the scavenging of 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radicals. The structure of new compound 1 was elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic evidence, particularly the results obtained via hetero-nuclear multiple-bond connectivity and high-resolution MS spectroscopy.
Plants and their secondary metabolites are the rich source of drugs against several diseases. Therefore, our aim of study was to characterize, standardize and to develop a fast and sensitive matrix free Material Enhance Laser Desorption Ionization Mass Spectrometry (mf-MELDI-MS) and High Performance Liquid Chromatography-Diode Array Detection-Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectrometry (HPLC-DAD-ESI-MS) method for the qualitative and quantitative determination of salicylic acid (SA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), gallic acid (GA) and gallic acid methyl ester (GAME) from crude plant extract of Primulae radix.
Abstract The bioaccessibility of individual phenolic compounds in extra virgin argan oil was evaluated using an in vitro digestion method for first time. The analyses were carried out by ultra-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionisation tandem mass spectrometry in multiple reaction monitoring (UPLC-ESI-MS/MS). Hydroxyphenylacetic acid (4245 μg/kg), ferulic acid (2478 μg/kg), vanillin (2429 μg/kg) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2247 μg/kg) were the mayor compounds identified in argan oil extracts. After the digestion process, values of bioaccessibility of the different compounds varied from a minimum of 2% (hydroxyphenylacetic acid) to a maximum of 84% ( p -coumaric acid), but some such as caffeic acid became detectable, as a result from digestive transformations. The results indicate that the phenolic compounds of the argan oil are strongly affected during the digestive process, and bioaccessibility should be taken into account when assessing polyphenol content of oils.
Catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) plays an important role in the metabolism of catecholamines, catecholestrogens and catechol drugs. A common COMT G472A genetic polymorphism (Val108/158Met) that was identified previously is associated with decreased levels of enzyme activity and has been implicated as a possible risk factor for neuropsychiatric disease. We set out to 'resequence' the human COMT gene using DNA samples from 60 African-American and 60 Caucasian-American subjects. A total of 23 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including a novel nonsynonymous cSNP present only in DNA from African-American subjects, and one insertion/deletion were observed. The wild type (WT) and two variant allozymes, Thr52 and Met108, were transiently expressed in COS-1 and HEK293 cells. There was no significant change in level of COMT activity for the Thr52 variant allozyme, but there was a 40% decrease in the level of activity in cells transfected with the Met108 construct. Apparent K(m) values of the WT and variant allozymes for the two reaction cosubstrates differed slightly, but significantly, for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid but not for S-adenosyl-L-methionine. The Met108 allozyme displayed a 70-90% decrease in immunoreactive protein when compared with WT, but there was no significant change in the level of immunoreactive protein for Thr52. A significant decrease in the level of immunoreactive protein was also observed in hepatic biopsy samples from patients homozygous for the allele encoding Met108. These observations represent steps toward an understanding of molecular genetic mechanisms responsible for variation in COMT level and/or properties, variation that may contribute to the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disease.
Lignin is the largest source of renewable material with an aromatic skeleton. However, due to the recalcitrant and heterogeneous nature of the lignin polymer, it has been a challenge to effectively depolymerize lignin and produce high-value chemicals with high selectivity. In this study, a highly efficient lignin-to-monomeric phenolic compounds (MPC) conversion method based on peracetic acid (PAA) treatment was reported. PAA treatment of two biorefinery lignin samples, diluted acid pretreated corn stover lignin (DACSL) and steam exploded spruce lignin (SESPL), led to complete solubilization and production of selective hydroxylated monomeric phenolic compounds (MPC-H) and monomeric phenolic acid compounds (MPC-A) including 4-hydroxy-2-methoxyphenol, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, syringic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The maximized MPC yields obtained were 18 and 22 % based on the initial weight of the lignin in SESPL and DACSL, respectively. However, we found that the addition of niobium pentoxide catalyst to PAA treatment of lignin can significantly improve the MPC yields up to 47 %. The key reaction steps and main mechanisms involved in this new lignin-to-MPC valorization pathway were investigated and elucidated.
Three phenolic acids (gallic, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic, and ellagic acids) and four hydrolyzable tannins (punicalin, punicalagins A and B, and corilagin) have been determined in pomegranate beverages and different parts of the fresh fruit and tree by liquid chromatography with diode array detection coupled to electrospray ionization and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-DAD-ESI-ToFMS). For the fruit and tree analysis, the lyophilized sample was submitted to extraction in methanol for 2 h. Centrifuged and filtered beverages were diluted 1:10 with water for the quantification of corilagin and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 1:100 for the rest of polyphenols. Calibration against external aqueous standards was used for quantification by liquid chromatography with diode array detection (LC-DAD), achieving detection limits in the 1.8–9.2 ng ml−1 range (0.2–1.1 μg g−1), depending on the compound. Matrix-matched calibration was applied for liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-ToFMS), with detection limits ranging between 0.16 and 1.4 ng ml−1 (0.02–0.17 μg g−1). Satisfactory recovery values between 88 and 110 % were obtained for beverages and solid samples spiked in the 5–100 μg ml−1 and 10–100 μg g−1 concentration ranges, respectively, with the two detection modes used. The polyphenols were quantified in the beverages between 0.3 and 325 mg l−1, for corilagin and punicalagin A, respectively, and between 0.04 and 22.82 mg g−1 (as dry matter) for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and punicalagin A, respectively, in the different parts of the fruit and tree.
The inhibitory effects of the leaves of Eucalyptus darylmpleana (Myrtaceae) on the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical was examined. The scavenging effect of the ethyl acetate fraction of Eucalyptus darylmpleana leaves on DPPH radical was stronger than the other fractions, and further purified by silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid, quercetin, quercetin , quercetin and quercetin 3-O-rutinoside were isolated and elucidated by spectroscopic data. Among these components, gallic acid and quercetin exhibited potent scavenging activities on DPPH radical with values of 6.02 and , respectively.
Phytochemical study of the ethanolic extract of Asphodelus microcarpus Salzm. et Viv. (Asphodelaceae) resulted in the isolation of two new compounds, methyl-1,4,5-trihydroxy-7-methyl-9,10-dioxo-9,10-dihydroanthracene-2-carboxylate (1), and (1R) 3,10-dimethoxy-5-methyl-1H-1,4-epoxybenzo[h]isochromene (2) as well as three known compounds; 3,4-dihydroxy-methyl benzoate (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4), and 6-methoxychrysophanol (5). Compound 1 showed a potent activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Staphylococcus aureus with IC50 values of 1.5 and 1.2 μg/mL, respectively. Compound 3 showed antileishmanial activity with an IC50 value of 33.2 μg/mL. Compound 2 is the first isochromene possessing a highly strained 1,4-epoxy moiety. The structure elucidation of isolated metabolites was carried out using spectroscopic data, the absolute configuration of 2 based on optical rotation and electronic circular dichroism experiments and calculations.
The present study investigated the species level based microbial community and metabolome in corn silage inoculated with or without homofermentative Lactobacillus plantarum and heterofermentative Lactobacillus buchneri using the PacBio SMRT Sequencing and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF/MS). Chopped whole crop corn was treated with (1) deionized water (control), (2) Lactobacillus plantarum, or (3) Lactobacillus buchneri. The chopped whole crop corn was ensiled in vacuum-sealed polyethylene bags containing 300 g of fresh forge for 90 days, with three replicates for each treatment. The results showed that a total of 979 substances were detected, and 316 different metabolites were identified. Some metabolites with antimicrobial activity were detected in whole crop corn silage, such as catechol, 3-phenyllactic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, azelaic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxycinnamic acid. Catechol, pyrogallol and ferulic acid with antioxidant property, 4-hydroxybutyrate with nervine activity, and linoleic acid with cholesterol lowering effects, were detected in present study. In addition, a flavoring agent of myristic acid and a depression mitigation substance of phenylethylamine were also found in this study. Samples treated with inoculants presented more biofunctional metabolites of organic acids, amino acids and phenolic acids than untreated samples. The Lactobacillus species covered over 98% after ensiling, and were mainly comprised by the L. acetotolerans, L. silagei, L. parafarraginis, L. buchneri and L. odoratitofui. As compared to the control silage, inoculation of L. plantarum increased the relative abundances of L. acetotolerans, L. buchneri and L. parafarraginis, and a considerable decline in the proportion of L. silagei was observed; whereas an obvious decrease in L. acetotolerans and increases in L. odoratitofui and L. farciminis were observed in the L. buchneri inoculated Metabolome and Microbiota in Silage silage. Therefore, inoculation of L. plantarum and L. buchneri regulated the microbial composition and metabolome of the corn silage with different behaviors. The present results indicated that profiling of silage microbiome and metabolome might improve our current understanding of the biological process underlying silage formation.
Spleen is the largest lymphoid tissue, bean shaped organ for filtering blood. It plays an important role in the body such as formation of blood and removal of the old and ineffective cells and allows only young active cells to pass into circulation. It is also involved in the iron metabolism and reacts against infection [1, 2] . Aniline, a toxic aromatic amine, is widely used in industry for the manufacturing of dyes, resins, varnishes, perfumes, pesticides, explosives, isocyanates, hydroquinone, and rubber chemicals [3] . Various studies reported that the chronic exposure to aniline leads to the development of splenomegaly, increased erythropoietic activity, increased pigmentation, production of free radical, hyperplasia, and formation of malignant tumours [4, 5] . Clinical symptoms such as cyanosis, weakness, dizziness, headache, stupor, loss of coordination, and coma occur commonly after exposure to or contact with aniline [6] . Earlier studies have shown that aniline hydrochloride (AH) exposure leads to the formation of oxidative and nitrosative stress which are due to iron overload and induction of lipid peroxidation. AH enhance the production of reactive oxygen/nitrogen species (ROS/RNS) which attacks proteins and nucleic acid leading to the structural and functional changes in the spleen [7] . Protection against free radicals can be enhanced by ample intake of dietary antioxidants. Substantial evidence indicates that foods containing antioxidant nutrients may be of major importance in disease prevention. There is growing consensus among scientists that the combination of antioxidant, rather than single, entities may be more effective over the long term. Antioxidants may be of great benefit in improving the quality of life by preventing the onset of degenerative diseases. In addition, they have a potential for substantial saving in the cost of healthcare delivery [8] . Protocatechuic acid (PCA) is a polyphenolic compound; chemically it is 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and available mainly in the fruits and vegetables [9] . It is reported to possess antioxidant [10] , antibacterial [11] , anticancer [12] , antiulcer [13] , antidiabetic [14] , antiaging [15] , antifibrotic [16] , antiviral [17] , antiinflammatory [18] , antiatherosclerotic [19] , cardioprotective [20] , hepatoprotective [21] , nephroprotective [22] , and neuroprotective [23] activities and have good effect on reproductive system [24] . Ascorbic acid (AA) is also known as vitamin C, which is the enolic form of 3-keto L glucofuranolactone; it plays an active role in tissue metabolism and is connected with numerous electron transport processes, where it behaves as a strong reducing agent [25] . AA is an effective antioxidant and is involved in the biosynthesis of carnitine [26] . Combinations of various antioxidants are reported to produce synergistic activity. Literature showed that there are no works carried out to explore the protective effects of protocatechuic acid (polyphenolic antioxidant) and ascorbic acid (vitamin and antioxidant) alone and in combination in AH induced spleen toxicity, so the present study was initiated.
Catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT) plays an important role in the metabolism of catecholamines, catecholestrogens and catechol drugs. A common COMT G472A genetic polymorphism (Val108/158Met) that was identified previously is associated with decreased levels of enzyme activity and has been implicated as a possible risk factor for neuropsychiatric disease. We set out to 'resequence' the human COMT gene using DNA samples from 60 African-American and 60 Caucasian-American subjects. A total of 23 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including a novel nonsynonymous cSNP present only in DNA from African-American subjects, and one insertion/deletion were observed. The wild type (WT) and two variant allozymes, Thr52 and Met108, were transiently expressed in COS-1 and HEK293 cells. There was no significant change in level of COMT activity for the Thr52 variant allozyme, but there was a 40% decrease in the level of activity in cells transfected with the Met108 construct. Apparent K m values of the WT and variant allozymes for the two reaction cosubstrates differed slightly, but significantly, for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid but not for S-adenosyl-L-methionine. The Met108 allozyme displayed a 70-90% decrease in immunoreactive protein when compared with WT, but there was no significant change in the level of immunoreactive protein for Thr52. A significant decrease in the level of immunoreactive protein was also observed in hepatic biopsy samples from patients homozygous for the allele encoding Met108. These observations represent steps toward an understanding of molecular genetic mechanisms responsible for variation in COMT level and/or properties, variation that may contribute to the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disease.
Abstract Phytochemical study of the ethanolic extract of Asphodelus microcarpus Salzm. et Viv. (Asphodelaceae) resulted in the isolation of two new compounds, methyl-1,4,5-trihydroxy-7-methyl-9,10-dioxo-9,10-dihydroanthracene-2-carboxylate (1), and (1R) 3,10-dimethoxy-5-methyl-1H-1,4-epoxybenzo[h]isochromene (2) as well as three known compounds; 3,4-dihydroxy-methyl benzoate (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4), and 6-methoxychrysophanol (5). Compound 1 showed a potent activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Staphylococcus aureus with IC 50 values of 1.5 and 1.2 lg/mL, respectively. Compound 3 showed antileishmanial activity with an IC 50 value of 33.2 lg/mL. Compound 2 is the first isochromene possessing a highly strained 1,4-epoxy moiety. The structure elucidation of isolated metabolites was carried out using spectroscopic data, the absolute configuration of 2 based on optical rotation and electronic circular dichroism experiments and calculations.
Benzoic acid-derived phenolics (p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, syringic acid, and gallic acid) and the polyphenols epicatechin and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) were evaluated for their efficiency in regenerating α-tocopherol from α-tocopheroxyl radical in comparison with ascorbyl palmitate, which is known to regenerate α-tocopherol. Ethanolic solutions of phenolic compounds were added to a homogeneous hexane medium containing α-tocopheroxyl radical generated by reaction of α-tocopherol in molar excess with 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical, and the α-tocopheroxyl radical was monitored by electron spin resonance spectroscopy. p-Hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, and syringic acid (400 μM) did not exhibit a significant effect on α-tocopheroxyl radical concentration (0.6−0.7 μM). In contrast, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and gallic acid were able to reduce the concentration of α-tocopheroxyl radical by 16 and 64%, respectively. Epicatechin showed a reduction of α-tocoph...
To study the chemical constituents of Asarum himalaicum,fifteen compounds were isolated from a 70% ethanol extract by using a combination of various chromatographic techniques including column chromatography over silica gel,Sephadex LH-20,and semi-preparative HPLC.By spectroscopic techniques including 1H NMR,13C NMR,and HR-ESI-MS,these compounds were identified as 4-demethoxyaristolochic acid BII(1),aristolochic acid I(2),aristolochic acid Ia(3),7-hydroxyaristolochic acid I(4),aristolochic acid IV(5),aristolic acid II(6),debilic acid(7),aristololactam I(8),9-hydroxyaristololactam I(9),7-methoxyaristololactam IV(10),(2S)-narigenin-5,7-di-O-β-D-pyranosylglucoside(11),4-hydroxybenzoic acid(12),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(13),4-hydroxycinnamic acid(14),and β-sitosterol(15).All of these compounds(1-15) were obtained from A.himalaicum for the first time.Among them,1 was identified as a new compound,and compounds 3-6,9,12-14 were isolated from Asarum genus for the first time.Since the kidney toxicity of aristolochic acids and aristololactams has been reported,the result of this investigation suggests that it should be cautioned to use A.himalaicum as a medicine.
Abstract In the scope of adsorption of simple organic acid at the mineral oxide–water interface that represent natural ecosystem, adsorption of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid onto α-alumina is explored in the presence of different salts at pH 5 and 7. The adsorption isotherms showed a critical salt concentration (in the present system it is 0.025 mM) that demarcates positive and negative effects of different salts on the adsorption densities of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid onto α-alumina surface. The theoretical origin of specific ion effects below and above the critical salt concentration is likely to be different. Nevertheless, at higher salt concentration the polarizability of ions is reasonably accounted for the specific ion effects.
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the chemical constituents of Dendrobium devonianum and identify the material basis components of its function, and then provide the basis for development and utilization of D. devonianum. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: The constituents were separated and purified on the chromatography of silica gel, Sephadex LH-20 and RP-18 silica gel, and then their structures were elucidated based on the spectra data. ABTS method was used to evaluate the free radical scavenging activity of the phenolic compounds among them. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: Nine compounds were isolated and identified as 2,3,4,9-tetrahydro-1H-pyrido[3,4-b] indole-3-carboxylic acid (1), 2'-deoxythymidine (2), adenosine (3), N-trans-p-coumaroyl tyramine (4), N-trans-p-feruloyl tyramine (5), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzaldehyde (6), 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde (7), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester (8), and 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid (9). Compound 5 showed good antioxidant activity with IC50 1. 61 mmol. L-1, Compound 9 showed weak antioxidant activity with IC50 35.72 mmol. L-1. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: All these compounds were isolated from D. devonianum for the first time. Among them, compounds 5 and 9 had some antioxidant activity.
Nine compounds were isolated from the roots of Curcuma kwangsiensis S.G.Lee et C.F.Liang.(Gui yujin) and identified as wogonine(1),luteolin(2),curcumin(3),15,16-bisnorlabda -8(17),11-dien-13-one(4),gweicurculactone(5),uracil(6),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(7),4-hydroxybenzaldehyde(8),4-hydroxybenzoic acid(9).Compounds 1,2,4 and 6 were obtained from this genus for the first time,and compounds 3,7 and 8 were obtained from this species for the first time,and compounds 5 and 9 were obtained from Gui yujin for the first time.
The interactions between chromium(III) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) were studied resulting in the formation of oxygen-bonded complexes upon substitution of water molecules in the chromium(III) coordination sphere. The experimental results show that the reaction takes place in at least three stages, involving various intermediates. The first stage was found to be linearly dependent on ligand concentration , and the corresponding activation parameters were calculated as follows: kJ , J (composite activation parameters) . The second and third stages, which are kinetically indistinguishable, do not depend on the concentrations of ligand and chromium(III), accounting for isomerization and chelation processes, respectively. The corresponding activation parameters are kJ , J . The observed stages are proposed to proceed via interchange dissociative (, first stage) and associative (second and third stages) mechanisms. The reactions are accompanied by proton release, as is shown by the pH decrease.
A rapid assay employing HPLC with electrochemical detection for catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in red blood cells is described. Enzyme activity is determined from erythrocyte lysates using S-adenosyl-L-methionine as methyl donor and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as substrate. The 3-O- and 4-O-methylated reaction products are measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Human erythrocyte soluble form of COMT had Km values of 6.1 microM and 26.0 microM for S-adenosyl-L-methionine and dihydroxybenzoic acid, respectively. The mean O-methylation ratio for the soluble form of COMT was 5.3. An O-methylation ratio of 15.5 was estimated in the membrane fraction of an erythrocyte pool from three samples. The activities of soluble COMT in erythrocytes of some animal species are also reported. The procedure is easily automated, and a large number of samples can be processed during one working day.
The concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, catechin, chlorogenic acid, epicatechin, gallic acid, p-coumaric acid, quercetin, rutin, ferulic acid, and the major metals in graviola (Annona muricata), atemoya (A. squamosa x A. cherimola), fruta do conde (A. squamosa), biriba (Rollinia mucosa), and the North American pawpaw (Asimina triloba) were determined by UPLC-ESI (−)-MS/MS. It enabled the identification and quantification of phenolic compounds. Catechin was only found in atemoya, at a concentration of 38.6 μg/g-dw. Only 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was found in the fruit pulps of all five fruits analyzed. Atemoya stands out for not only having catechin but also for having much more epicatechin (239 μg/g-dw) than the other fruits. At the same time, graviola had more p-coumaric acid (62.6 μg/g-dw), and the North American pawpaw had more chlorogenic acid (48.1 μg/g-dw) than the other fruits. Metals were determined by ICP equipped with axially viewed plasma. All five fruit pulps had relatively high levels of potassium, with concentrations ranging from 7640 to 15,000 μg/g-dw, with pawpaw being the lowest and atemoya being the highest. The concentrations of other metals ranged from Ca 547 to 1110, Na 14.3 to 123, P 1210 to 1690, Mg 472 to 980, Mn 1.86 to 5.27, and Zn 5.55 to 7.32 μg/g-dw. All five fruits in the Annonaceae family that were analyzed in this study have several phenolic compounds in them and were good sources of potassium, calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium.
The interactions between chromium(III) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) were studied resulting in the formation of oxygen-bonded complexes upon substitution of water molecules in the chromium(III) coordination sphere. The experimental results show that the reaction takes place in at least three stages, involving various intermediates. The first stage was found to be linearly dependent on ligand concentration k 1(obs) = k 0 + k 1(obs) [3, , and the corresponding activation parameters were calculated as follows: ΔH 
Canarium album (Lour.) Raeusch (Burseraceae) is widely distributed in southern China. Its fruits have been used as food in China. Also, the dried fruits of Canarium album (Lour.) Raeusch have been used in Chinese folk medicine for the treatment of angina, dysentery, snake bites, cough-hematemesis, falling sickness, enteritis, diarrhea, toxicosis from swellfish, and alcoholism [1]. Recently, phytochemical investigations found that this drug contained a number of phenolic compounds, such as gallic acid, brevifolin, scoparone, and hyperoside [2–4]. In the course of further studies, three monocyclic phenolic compounds: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ether (1) [5], 2-hydroxybenzoic acid (2) [5], ethyl gallate (3) [6]; two flavones: luteolin (4) [5], luteolin-7-O-D-glucoside (5) [7]; three flavonols: quercetin (6) [8], quercetin-3-O-D-glucoside (7) [9], kaempferol (8) [5], one flavanone: 7,8,3 ,4 -tetrahydroxyflavanone (9) [10], and one flavanonol: 3,5,7,3 -tetrahydroxy-4 -methoxyflavanonol (10) [11] have been isolated from the fruits. All the above compounds have not been reported before from this plant source. The EtOH extract was separated by repeated column chromatography using silica gel. The dried fruits (6 kg) were chopped and extracted with 80% EtOH three times under reflux and concentrated under vacuum to yield an EtOH extract (300 g). The concentrated solution was diluted with H2O and extracted successively with petroleum ether, EtOAc, and n-butanol. The EtOAc extract was separated by repeated column chromatography using silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 to afford compounds 1–10. All the phenolic compounds were identified by comparison of their 1H and 13C, DEPT NMR data. The 13C NMR data of the isolated phenolic compounds are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
Neurotrophins are critical for the survival of neurons during development and insufficient access to neurotrophins later in life may contribute to the loss of neurons in neurodegenerative disease, spinal cord injury, and stroke. The prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) and dimethyloxalylglycine (DMOG) were shown to inhibit cell death in a model of neurotrophin deprivation that involves depriving sympathetic neurons of nerve growth factor (NGF). Here we show that treatment with DMOG or DHB reverses the decline in 2-deoxyglucose uptake caused by NGF withdrawal and suppresses the NGF deprivation-induced accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Neither DMOG nor DHB prevented death when NGF deprivation was carried out under conditions of glucose starvation, and both compounds proved toxic to NGF-maintained neurons deprived of glucose, suggesting that their survival-promoting effects are mediated through the preservation of glucose metabolism. DHB and DMOG are well known activators of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF), but whether activation of HIF underlies their survival-promoting effects is not known. Using gene disruption and RNA interference, we provide evidence that DMOG and, to a lesser extent, DHB require HIF-2alpha expression to inhibit NGF deprivation-induced death. Furthermore, suppressing basal HIF-2alpha expression, but not HIF-1alpha, in NGF-maintained neurons is sufficient to promote cell death. These results implicate HIF-2alpha in the neuroprotective mechanisms of prolyl hydroxylase inhibitors and in an endogenous cell survival pathway activated by NGF in developing neurons.
Characterization of oregano in Argentina is limited. They are normally known with fancy names, but it is not possible to recognize whether they are genetically equivalent or not. This paper presents a non-volatile polyphenol study of one of the subspecies of Origanum vulgare, O. vulgare L. ssp. viridulum (Martrin-Donos) Nyman [= O. vulgare L. ssp. virens (Hoffmannsegg et Link) Ietswart]. The polyphenols 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) lactic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, 4-(3.4-dihydroxybenzoyloxymethyl)phenyl β-glucoside and rosmarinic acid were isolated and identified by spectroscopic analysis from leaves and inflorescences of classified material. In addition, the polyphenol profile of the hydroalcoholic extract of this oregano was developed applying high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with diode array detector (DAD), and the identified compounds were located in the profile. The observation of the instrumental UV spectra revealed that this subspecies is also rich in flavone derivatives such as apigenin and luteolin glycosides. The profile found appears repeatedly in other samples of the same variety with different geographic origins, while differences were observed in profiles of other taxonomical groups of oreganos. This chemical profile is expected to be an additional support for botanists who differentiate origanum materials, especially when most of the plant features have been lost in the culinary herb.
Objective To further study on the chemical constituents in the peels of Citrus changshan-huyou.Methods The chemical constituents were separated by repeated silica gel column chromatography,the structures were determined by spectral analyses.Results Ten compounds were obtained and identified as huyoujiasu(2'-hydroxy-malonyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,Ⅰ),3'-hydroxy-4',5,6,7,8-pentamethoxyflavone(Ⅱ),eriodictyol(Ⅲ),tetracosanoic acid(Ⅳ),glyceryl dodecanoate(Ⅴ),neoeriocitrin(Ⅵ),naringin(Ⅶ),neohesperidin(Ⅷ),4-methoxy-3-hydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅸ),and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅹ).Conclusion 2'-hydroxy-malonyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid is a new compound and the above ten compounds are obtained from this plant for the first time.
Abstract Raisins of 9 grape genotypes from Xinjiang Province were evaluated for phenolic composition and dietary antioxidant potential by using several assays, including 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging capacity, cupric reducing antioxidant power (CUPRAC), nitrite scavenging capacity (NTSC), potassium ferricyanide reducing power (PFRAP), and hydroxyl radical scavenging capacity (HRSC). Desert king had the highest content of total phenolics, total flavonoids, oligo proanthocyanidin, and total flavanols. Significance analysis demonstrated that Desert king had the highest antioxidant capacity in DPPH, CUPRAC, NTSC, and PFRAP. In HRSC, red manaizi showed the highest antioxidant capacity. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was the predominant phenolic compound in the majority of raisin samples.
In this work, carboxyl-functionalized graphene (CFG) was immobilized on glassy carbon electrode (GCE) by self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) based on covalent interaction with ethylenediamine as an arm linker. The obtained (CFG-NHCH2CH2NH)/GCE can be used as rapid and sensitive electrochemical sensor for hydroxyl free radicals (•OH). In the process of determination, the concentration of •OH was acquired not directly but through the only captured product 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), which is adopting 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) as the •OH trap. The glassy carbon electrode modified with carboxyl-functionalized graphene exhibits well conductivity and electron transfer ability, and also displays good electrocatalytic activity towards the electrochemical redox of 3,4-DHBA. The proposed sensor displays a good linear range from 1.0 to 450.0 μM for 3,4-DHBA with a low detection limit of 0.17 μM (S/N = 3). More importantly, the sensing platform can be successfully applied for •OH detection with the 4-HBA as the •OH trap.
Acacia confusa is an indigenous plantation species in Taiwan, and its heartwood has excellent decay resistance capability. The aim of this study is to investigate the resistance mechanisms of heartwood extracts from A. confusa against Laetiporus sulphureus (brown-rot). Results from wood block decay resistance tests indicate that aqueous crude extract and its three soluble fractions can significantly decrease the weight loss of wood blocks caused by L. sulphureus. However, none of the extracts can inhibit the growth of L. sulphureus on agar plate test. The performance of decay resistance from three soluble fractions is consistent with their antioxidant activities (DPPH free radical scavenging activity, reducing power and ferrous ion chelating ability). 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), the compound present in three soluble fractions, exhibited excellent antioxidant activities and was proven to have excellent decay resistance ability against L. sulphureus. These findings suggest that 3,4-DHBA may be responsible for the inhibition of hydroxyl radical formation from Fenton reaction caused by L. sulphureus. Thus, 3,4-DHBA has good potential to be used as a novel and environmentally benign wood preservative.
Source of material 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (1 g) andsulfuricacid(2mL) were mixed in ethanol (20 mL)and refluxed for 5hours. After filtration and drying, 1,2-dibromoethane (1 g) and acetone (20 mL)were added and refluxed for 3hours. Then hydrazine hydrate (1 mL) was added and refluxed for another 4hours. After filtration and drying, phenyl isothiocyanate (2 g) and chloroform (20 mL)were added and refluxed for 4.5 hours. Thea bove solution was extracted and kept at room temperature for 2duntil crystals were obtained.
3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde(2) have been isolated from ethyl acetate fraction of methanolic fractions of leaves, stems and roots of the fern Trichomaneschinense L. (Hymenophyllaceae). These two compounds also showed significant antioxidant using DPPH and antimicrobial activities using the disc diffusion assay.
In this report, we presented the profile of polyphenolic substances in flowers, leaves, stalk and roots of Fagopyrum tataricum estimated by using RP-UHPLC-ESI-MS equipment (reversed-phase ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry). The neutral detergent fibre, acid detergent fibre, acid detergent lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose were also determined. Flowers, leaves, stalk and roots showed varying levels of dietary fibre and polyphenols. The highest content of neutral and acid detergent fibre were found in the roots (63.92 and 45.45% d.m., respectively) while the most rich in phenolic compounds were flowers (4.8 mg/1 g d.m.). Root and stalk contained the highest level of cellulose, 38.70 and 25.57% d.m., respectively. Among the investigated polyphenolic substances such as: 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydrobenzoic acid, caffeic acid, catechin, chlorogenic acid, fagopyrin, ferulic acid, myricetin, gallic acid, isovanilic acid, isovitexin, kaempferol, luteolin, p-coumaric acid, procyanidin B2, quercetin, quercetin 3-D galactoside, rutin, syringic acid and vitexin, we observed that the contents of rutin and chlorogenic acid were the highest. We found some correlation between dietary fibre fractions and individual phenolic substances. The levels of acid detergent fibre (ADF), cellulose and hemicellulose were negatively correlated with isovitexin, kaempferol, vitexin, fagopyrin, caffeic acid and procyanidin B2 content. In this investigation, two solvents (water and methanol) were estimated regarding their extraction efficiency of phenolic compounds. Taking these results into consideration, we recommend using methanol as the extractor to isolate chlorogenic acid, fagopyrin, kaempferol, procyanidin B2, quercetin, quercetin 3-D-galactoside, rutin, vitexin, and water for other investigated polyphenolic substances obtained from Fagopyrum tataricum.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; PCA) is a well-known antioxidant compound and a potential antitumor drug that is commonly found in fruits and vegetables. This article describes the development of novel biodegradable dendrimers that contain PCA as a building block. The structures of the dendrimers were characterized by nuclear magnetic resonance, gel permeation chromatography, and matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. PCA dendrimers could serve as potential anticancer drugs and also as nanocarriers for anticancer drug delivery. PCA dendrimers can easily be loaded with hydrophobic drugs such as doxorubicin that benefit from the binding interaction between PCA and the drug. Doxorubicin-loaded PCA dendrimers exhibited pH and redox-dual responsive drug release in vitro. The antitumor effect of PCA dendrimers to which polyethylene glycol polymer chains have been attached and doxorubicin-loaded dendrimers was preliminarily evaluated both in vitro and in vivo.
Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) is a bioactive component isolated from propolis. A series of CAPE analogues was synthesized and their antiradical/antioxidant effects analyzed. The effect of the presence of the double bond and of the conjugated system on the antioxidant effect is evaluated with the analogues obtained from 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propanoic acid. Those obtained from 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) acetic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid allow the evaluation of the effect of the presence of two carbons between the carbonyl and aromatic system.
In the search of compounds from botanic source with insecticide activity, the antifeedant effect of the organic extracts and isolated metabolites from the plant Senefelderopsis chiribiquetensis was evaluated against the insect Sitophilus zeamais, which is considered one of the more important grain colepteoran pests. The antiffedant activity was evaluated using the one way feeding assay. The ethyl acetate extract of the leaves and stem showed the highest antiffedant effect. The results demonstrated that the compounds friedelin, heptacosyl (E)-ferulate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid and putraflavone caused a significant decrease in
In this report, we presented the profile of polyphenolic substances in flowers, leaves, stalk and roots of Fagopyrum tataricum estimated by using RP-UHPLC-ESI-MS equipment (reversed-phase ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry). The neutral detergent fibre, acid detergent fibre, acid detergent lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose were also determined. Flowers, leaves, stalk and roots showed varying levels of dietary fibre and polyphenols. The highest content of neutral and acid detergent fibre were found in the roots (63.92 and 45.45% d.m., respectively) while the most rich in phenolic compounds were flowers (4.8 mg/1 g d.m.). Root and stalk contained the highest level of cellulose, 38.70 and 25.57% d.m., respectively. Among the investigated polyphenolic substances such as: 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydrobenzoic acid, caffeic acid, catechin, chlorogenic acid, fagopyrin, ferulic acid, myricetin, gallic acid, isovanilic acid, isovitexin, kaempferol, luteolin, p-coumaric acid, procyanidin B2, quercetin, quercetin 3-D galactoside, rutin, syringic acid and vitexin, we observed that the contents of rutin and chlorogenic acid were the highest. We found some correlation between dietary fibre fractions and individual phenolic substances. The levels of acid detergent fibre (ADF), cellulose and hemicellulose were negatively correlated with isovitexin, kaempferol, vitexin, fagopyrin, caffeic acid and procyanidin B2 content. In this investigation, two solvents (water and methanol) were estimated regarding their extraction efficiency of phenolic compounds. Taking these results into consideration, we recommend using methanol as the extractor to isolate chlorogenic acid, fagopyrin, kaempferol, procyanidin B2, quercetin, quercetin 3-D-galactoside, rutin, vitexin, and water for other investigated polyphenolic substances obtained from Fagopyrum tataricum.
Abstract: Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) is a bioactive component isolated from propolis. A series of CAPE analogues was synthesized and their antiradical/antioxidant effects analyzed. The effect of the presence of the double bond and of the conjugated system on the antioxidant effect is evaluated with the analogues obtained from 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propanoic acid. Those obtained from 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) acetic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid allow the evaluation of the effect of the presence of two carbons between the carbonyl and aromatic system.
Owing to the biological significance of caffeic acid analogues, we report herein the synthesis of phenethyl and phenpropyl esters of caffeic acid, 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propanoic acid 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) acetic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The antioxidant activity of the synthesized derivatives was investigated using two tests. Antioxidants employ two major strategies to deactivate radicals: hydrogen atom transfer (HAT) and electron transfer (ET) [21] . To evaluate which mechanism was favored by our test compounds we used two different tests. The DPPH assay was used to evaluate the free radical scavenging activity of the test molecules by an ET reaction. The APPH (2,2'-azobis(2-amidinopropane) dihydrochloride) assay was used to determine the antioxidant activity via an HAT mechanism mainly by assessing the prevention of lipid peroxidation in an emulsion system [22] . The present structure-activity relationship (SAR) study examines the effect of hydrogenation and the shrinking of the linker between the catechol moiety and the carbonyl on antioxidant activity. The lengthening of the linker from phenethyl to phenpropyl is also investigated.
OBJECTIVE ::: We sought to assess whether pharmacological inhibition of hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (HIF)-prolyl hydroxylase enzymes (PHD1, PHD2, and PHD3) is a suitable strategy to stimulate liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy for colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). ::: ::: ::: BACKGROUND ::: Liver regeneration occurs in a hypoxic environment. PHD1 to PHD3 are molecular oxygen sensors and increasingly considered as putative therapeutic targets. However, little is known about the effect of pharmacological PHD inhibition on tumor expansion, and on liver regeneration after surgical resection. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Various mouse models of liver regeneration after extended partial hepatectomy and portal vein ligation for multiple bilobar CRLM were applied to assess the effect of the small molecule pan-PHD inhibitor ethyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (EDHB) on liver regeneration and metastatic tumor growth. Metabolism and biodistribution of EDHB were analyzed using liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: EDHB selectively augmented liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy and portal vein ligation, and increased the expression of cell cycle-promoting cyclin proteins, without enhancing metastatic tumor growth. Systemically administered EDHB and its active metabolite 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid accumulated in the liver to selectively induce hepatoprotective effects in the liver, but not in tumor tissue, without humoral adverse effects. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Pharmacological inhibition of PHDs using EDHB might represent a novel and safe strategy in the treatment of multiple bilobar CRLM.
The electrochemical copolymerization of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) and aniline was carried out at microdisk gold electrodes by means of cyclic voltammetric sweep. The polymer obtained on the electrode shows good electrochemical activity and high stability even though in neutral and weakly basic media. It was found that the response current of ascorbic acid was greatly enhanced at this composite polymer electrode. Moreover, the anodic overpotential was significantly reduced for about 200 mV (vs. SCE) compared with that obtained at bare gold electrodes. The electrode exhibits a rapid current response (less than 2 s) and a high sensitivity (0.21 AM(-1) cm(-2)). The dependence of response currents on the concentration of ascorbic acid was linear in the range of 1.0x10(-4)-1.0x10(-2) M. In addition this composite polymer modified electrode exhibits a high electrode stability for a long-term use.
Studying the phytochemical composition and bioactive potential of underexploited species is of great importance for promoting their valorization and for broadening the range of sources of bioactive compounds in the human diet. In this study, we used a simplex centroid mixture design to determine an optimal extraction solvent composition (using mixtures of water, acetone, and ethanol) for maximizing the extraction of phenolic compounds and the antioxidant capacity of bacaba juice (Oenocarpus bacaba). The compounds were identified and quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry. Taxifolin, orientin, and isoorientin were identified and quantified in bacaba juice for the first time. It was possible to evidence the high potentiality of the bacaba regarding the contents of syringic, vanillic, ferulic, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, and orientin, which have significantly contributed to the antioxidant capacity of the extracts. Thus, this study indicates that bacaba juice can provide antioxidant compounds. Moreover, the determined extraction conditions can be applied for obtaining extracts rich in potential bioactive properties for food and pharmaceutical applications.
Benzaldehyde and its metabolic intermediates were effectively degraded by the brown-rot basidiomycetes Tyromyces palustris and Gloeophyllum trabeum. The pathway of benzaldehyde degradation was elucidated by the identification of fungal metabolites produced upon the addition of benzaldehyde and its metabolic intermediates. The oxidation and reduction occurred simultaneously, forming benzyl alcohol and benzoic acid as major products. Hydroxylation reactions, which seemed to be a key step, occurred on benzaldehyde and benzoic acid, but not on benzyl alcohol, to form corresponding 4-hydroxyl and 3,4-dihydroxyl derivatives. 1-Formyl derivatives were oxidized to 1-carboxyl derivatives at several metabolic stages. All of these reactions resulted in the formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. This was further metabolized via the decarboxylation reaction to yield 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene, which may be susceptible to the ring-fission reaction. Ring-U-14C-labelled benzaldehyde and benzoic acid were effectively mineralized, clearly indicating that the brown-rot basidiomycetes are capable of metabolizing certain aromatic compounds to CO2 and H2O, despite the fact that brown-rot fungi cannot degrade polymeric lignin. Inhibitor experiments, using hydroxyl radical scavengers, catalase and cytochrome P450 inhibitors, strongly suggested that the aromatic hydroxylation reactions found in the brown-rot fungi are catalysed by intracellular enzyme(s), but not by Fenton-reaction-derived hydroxyl radicals.
New free radical scavengers, inoscavin D (1) and methylinoscavin D (2), were isolated from the methanolic extract of the fruiting bodies of Inonotus xeranticus (Hymenochaetaceae), along with the known compounds phelligridin D (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (4), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5). Their structures were established by various spectroscopic analyses. Compounds 1 and 3 were proposed to be biosynthesized from the oxidative coupling of the precursor hispidin with 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, respectively. These compounds exhibited significant scavenging activity against the ABTS radical cation, and compounds 2 and 4 displayed moderate superoxide radical scavenging activity.
1. Two pro-(phenol oxidase) were distinguished when the blood of late-third-instar larvae of Calliphora erythrocephala was electrophoresed in polyacrylamide gels with Tris-glycine buffer, pH 8.3. One pro-(phenol oxidase), after activation by an enzyme readily catalyses the oxidation of both L-tyrosine and L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa). The second enzyme catalyses the oxidation of L-dopa but not of L-tyrosoine. 2. One of the pro-(phenol oxidases) was purified over 2000-fold from homogenates of whole larvae. This enzyme, after activation, catalyses the oxidation of both dopa and tyrosine. On electrophoresis in polyacrylamide gels with Tris-glycine buffer, pH 8.3, it has the same mobility as the enzyme in the blood which catalyses the oxidation of both tyrosine and dopa. 3. The pro-(phenol oxidase)-activating enzyme was purified over 100-fold from homogenates of whole larvae. 4. The oxidation of L-tyrosine, in the presence of the activated purified phenol oxidase, reached a steady maximum rate after a lag period that was directly related to tyrosine concentration and inversely related to enzyme concentration. 5. The effect of the addition of electron donors on the lag period was studied. Dopa, dopamine (3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine) and 2-amino-4-hydroxy-6,7-dimethyl-5,6,7,8-tetrahydropteridine are the most effective hydrogen donors. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, the oxidation of which was not catalysed by the activated pro-(phenol oxidase), did not affect the lag period.
Benzaldehyde and its metabolic intermediates were effectively degraded by the brown-rot basidiomycetes Tyromyces palustris and Gloeophyllum trabeum. The pathway of benzaldehyde degradation was elucidated by the identification of fungal metabolites produced upon the addition of benzaldehyde and its metabolic intermediates. The oxidation and reduction occurred simultaneously, forming benzyl alcohol and benzoic acid as major products. Hydroxylation reactions, which seemed to be a key step, occurred on benzaldehyde and benzoic acid, but not on benzyl alcohol, to form corresponding 4-hydroxyl and 3,4-dihydroxyl derivatives. 1-Formyl derivatives were oxidized to 1-carboxyl derivatives at several metabolic stages. All of these reactions resulted in the formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. This was further metabolized via the decarboxylation reaction to yield 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene, which may be susceptible to the ring-fission reaction. Ring-U-14 C-labelled benzaldehyde and benzoic acid were effectively mineralized, clearly indicating that the brown-rot basidiomycetes are capable of metabolizing certain aromatic compounds to CO 2 and H 2 O, despite the fact that brown-rot fungi cannot degrade polymeric lignin. Inhibitor experiments, using hydroxyl radical scavengers, catalase and cytochrome P450 inhibitors, strongly suggested that the aromatic hydroxylation reactions found in the brown-rot fungi are catalysed by intracellular enzyme(s), but not by Fenton-reactionderived hydroxyl radicals.
The oxidation of aromatic derivatives in aqueous goethite slurry at varying catalyst load and hydrogen peroxide concentration is investigated. For adopted experimental conditions only the compounds containing two adjacent -OH groups or one -OH and one -NH2 groups are oxidized. A model previously developed for the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid has been satisfactorily used to describe the oxidation of 1,2-benzenediol (catechol), 2-aminophenol and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
In this study, two different types of macroporous resins known as XAD-7HP and HP-20 were evaluated for the adsorption and desorption properties against bioactive phenolics extracted from Phanerochaete chrysosporium. For static sorption, the study were conducted at different phase contact time, solution pH and ethanol concentration by static adsorption/ desorption method. From the results, it was found that the adsorption capacity for both resins had has no significant difference. Then, the kinetic adsorption data were analyzed with both pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order equations and the later performed better. The adsorption isotherm data were fitted well by both Langmuir and Freundlich models. Meanwhile in desorption study, HP-20 and XAD-7HP gave 90.52% and 88.28% recoveries, respectively. Considering the desorption results of the macroporous resins, HP-20 and XAD-7HP were packed in chromatography column to further purify the phenolics. For dynamic adsorption, breakthrough capacity of HP-20 (0.522) was found to be higher than XAD7HP (0.131). Different ethanol concentrations (30% to 50% (v/v)) were investigated at fixed flowrate (1 ml/min) on phenolics recovery from both types of resins. The highest recovery of bioactive phenolics was 94.3% using XAD-7HP resins at 50% (v/v) of ethanol. Only 77.1% of bioactive phenolics were recovered using HP-20 resin at the same experimental conditions. The purified extract subsequently was analyzed using HPLC. The results showed that three phenolics (gallic acid 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid) were identified with higher concentrations as compared to non-purified extract. Finally, the purified extract was tested for scavenging activity against DPPH, and it showed that the activity increased significantly to 90.80% from 59.94% in non-purified extract.
The destruction of aromatic hydrocarbons by the Rhodococcus wratislaviensis KT112-7 strain isolated from technogenic mineral waste products of the BKRU1 Uralkalii factory has been investigated (city of Berezniki, Perm krai). The R. wratislaviensis KT112-7 was shown to utilize increased concentrations of ophthalic (o-PA) (8 g/L) and benzoic (BA) (3.4 g/L) acids. The strain grows with o-FA, BA, and biphenyl at a NaCl content of up to 50, 90, and 75 g/L in the culture medium, respectively. Based on an analysis of the metabolic profile and nucleotide sequences of the bphA1, benA, and phtB genes, the KT112-7 strain was established to decompose o-PA via the formation of 3,4-dihydroxyphthalic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. The decomposition of biphenyl is carried out via the formation of BA and then at low concentrations of NaCl (up to 50 g/L) via the formation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid followed by its oxidation; at high concentrations of NaCl (over 60 g/L), via the direct oxidation of benzoic acid with the production of catechol. These data indicate that the Rhodococcus wratislaviensis KT112-7 destructor strain is a promising strain for the development of new biotechnologies directed at the utilization (transformation) of aromatic compounds, including under the conditions of increased mineralization.
Four compounds were isolated from ethyl acetate extract of the dried fruits of Chaenomeles speciosa(Sweet) Nakai,and their structures were identified with spectral methods(MS,1H NMR,and 13C NMR) as hydroquinone(1),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2),quercetin(3),and methyl 3-hydroxylbutanedioic ester(4).Compounds(1～3) exhibited antioxidant effects in 2,2′-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl(DPPH) radical scavenging assay.Compounds 1～4 were obtained from this plant for the first time.
Mangiferin (1), vitexin (2) and 4-O-β-D-glucopyranosylcaffeic acid (3), by means of classical extraction, fractionation and chromatographic separation, have been isolated for the first time from aerial parts (stems and leaves) of Trichomanes javanicum Blume (Hymenophyllaceae) as well as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4) and gallic acid (5) from the rhizome of Oleandra pistillaris (Sw.) C. Chr. (Oleandraceae). These compounds were characterized by spectroscopic methods and then compared to those of data reported in the literature. Compound (1) and (4) showed significant antioxidant activity (IC50 value was 3.89 and 3.83 μM respectively) twice stronger than ascorbic acid as standard (IC50 value 7.86 μM). Compound (4) and (5) significantly inhibited the growth of Salmonella thypimurium and S. thypi while compounds (1), (2) and (3) showed weak inhibition toward Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis and Vibrio cholerae. All compounds were not active against Enterococcus faecalis and Streptococcus mutans.
Abstract The polyol pathway called as sorbitol way is a small part of glycose metabolism. The pathway is regarded as an important element in the pathogenesis of various diabetic complications in individuals with diabetes mellitus. The pathway plays a crucial role in hyperglycemia. The polyol pathway contains two enzymes as aldose reductase (AR) and sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH). In the present study, AR and SDH were purified from sheep liver by using simple chromatographic methods. AR was purified with a yield of 2.11% and approximately 162 fold and SDH was purified with a yield of 0.53% and approximately 9.07 purification fold. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) was performed to check the purity and determine the subunit molecular weights of the enzymes. Subunit molecular weights of AR and SDH were 38.82 kDa and 37.74 kDa, respectively. Optimal pH, optimal ionic strength, optimal temperature, activation energy, activation enthalpy, Q10 value and stable pH were determined as 5.5, 10 mM, 50 °C, 2.16 kcal, 1.52 kcal, 1.33 and 8.0 for AR enzyme, respectively. The kinetic parameters Km and Vmax for AR were determined as 0.45 mM and 0.55 EU/mL, respectively. These parameters were studied for only AR in the present study, because it was previously studied for SDH. IC50 values of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, salicylic acid, p-coumaric acid, ellagic acid, gallic acid, ferrulic acid and caffeic acid on AR and SDH activities were found as 120, 92.0, 49.0, 39.0, 40.0, 690, 7.00, 103, 84.0, 3.00 μM for AR enzyme and 5060, 8350, 6730, 7070, 5780, 24.0, 13.0, 26.0, 17.0, 21.0 μM for SDH enzyme, respectively. According to these results, caffeic acid was the strongest inhibitor for AR activity compared to the other phenolic acids and ellagic acid was also the strongest inhibitor for SDH activity.
Eleven compounds were isolated from the 70% acetone extract of Lysimachia clethroides Duby.On the basis of spectral analysis,they were identified as 23-hydroxyursolic acid(1),isotachioside(2),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(3),3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid(4),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(5),3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid(6),methyl α-D-fructofuranoside(7),uridine(8),β-sitosterol(9),daucosterol(10),and oleanolic acid(11).This is first report of the presence of compounds 1,2,4,7,and 8 in the genus Lysimachia and 3,5,6,9-11 in this plant.
Objective An HPLC method was established to determine the contents of Ainsliaea fragrans Champ,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and chlorogenic acid in Ainsliaea fragrans Champ.MethodsThe samples were separated on a ALLtech C_(18)column(4.6 mm×250 mm,5 μm)with the mobile phase of methanol-1%acetic acid(7∶93).The flow rate was 1.5 ml·min~(-1),the column temperature was 40℃ and the detection wavelength was set at 280 nm.ResultsThe linear ranges of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and chlorogenic acid were 0.022 11～0.442 2 μg(r=0.999 9),0.015 01～0.210 2 μg(r= 0.999 9),0.098 32～1.966 4 μg(r=0.999 9) respectively.The average recovery rate were 98.39%(RSD=1.90%),(97.89)%(RSD=2.11%),98.27%(RSD=2.22%) respectively.ConclusionThe method is simple and quick with good reproducibility,it is suitable for the determination of the contents of 3 active components.
Objective:To study the chemical constituents of the peels collected from Citrus changshan-huyou Y.B.Chang,and further screen the bioactive components as the lead structures.Methods: These compounds were isolated by repeated flash column chromatography on silica gel and Sephadex LH-20.The structures of isolated compounds were elucidated by using IR,EIMS,and NMR analyses.Results: One novel compound along with nine known compounds were obtained and identified as huyoujiasu(Ⅰ),3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid(Ⅱ),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅲ),fatty acid(Ⅳ),gly-ceride(Ⅴ),6,7-dimethoxycoumarin(Ⅵ),6′,7′-dihydroxybergamottin(Ⅶ),daucossterol A(Ⅷ),daucossterol B(Ⅸ) and huyou-triterpenoid(Ⅹ).Conclusion: One new compound,Huyoujiasu,was obtained from these peels by repeated column chromatography,and the other known compounds were isolated from this fruit for the first time as well.
Abstract Seasonal variation of structural, physiological and growth indicators and the metabolome of the seagrass Cymodocea nodosa, as well as biogeochemical conditions of underlying sediment were studied in two meadows growing at increasing distance downstream from a fish farm in the Aegean Sea in order to assess seagrass performance under stress. Horizontal rhizome production decreased significantly with proximity to the fish farm (0.67 and 1.57 g DW m−2 d−1 close and far from the fish-farm, respectively). This coincided with observed effects on ecophyiological indicators, such as rhizome nitrogen, leaf carbon and leaf δ13C, which were elevated with proximity to the fish-farm. Seasonality was shown by some indicators being elevated in either in the warm (C of all tissues and leaf δ34S) or the cold period (N of all tissues). Growth promoting metabolites (sucrose, fructose, myo-inositol, heptacosane, tetracosane, stigmasterol, catechin and alpha-tocopherol) were lower close to the zone, whereas metabolites involved with stress-response (alanine, serine, proline, putrescine, ornithine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and cinnamic acid) were higher. We found that growth-promoting metabolites were positively correlated with horizontal rhizome production, whereas the metabolites related to stress were negatively correlated. Metabolomic fingerprinting of seagrass provides opportunities for early detection of environmental degradation in marine ecological studies.
Abstract An aromatic 3,4-oxygenase with a broad spectrum of substrate specificity has been partially purified from acetone-dried powders of the fungus, Tilletiopsis washingtonensis . The enzyme catalyzed the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine. The lactone of the primary fission product of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (β- carboxymethyl -cis-cis muconic acid ) was isolated as a dimethyl ester and identified as β- carboxymethylmuconolactone .
LigAB from Sphingomonas paucimobilis SYK-6 is the only structurally characterized dioxygenase of the largely uncharacterized superfamily of Type II extradiol dioxygenases (EDO). This enzyme catalyzes the oxidative ring-opening of protocatechuate (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or PCA) in a pathway allowing the degradation of lignin derived aromatic compounds (LDACs). LigAB has also been shown to utilize two other LDACs from the same metabolic pathway as substrates, gallate, and 3-O-methyl gallate; however, kcat/KM had not been reported for any of these compounds. In order to assess the catalytic efficiency and get insights into the observed promiscuity of this enzyme, steady-state kinetic analyses were performed for LigAB with these and a library of related compounds. The dioxygenation of PCA by LigAB was highly efficient, with a kcat of 51 s(-1) and a kcat/KM of 4.26 × 10(6) M(-1)s(-1). LigAB demonstrated the ability to use a variety of catecholic molecules as substrates beyond the previously identified gallate and 3-O-methyl gallate, including 3,4-dihydroxybenzamide, homoprotocatechuate, catechol, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzonitrile. Interestingly, 3,4-dihydroxybenzamide (DHBAm) behaves in a manner similar to that of the preferred benzoic acid substrates, with a kcat/Km value only ∼4-fold lower than that for gallate and ∼10-fold higher than that for 3-O-methyl gallate. All of these most active substrates demonstrate mechanistic inactivation of LigAB. Additionally, DHBAm exhibits potent product inhibition that leads to an inactive enzyme, being more highly deactivating at lower substrate concentration, a phenomena that, to our knowledge, has not been reported for another dioxygenase substrate/product pair. These results provide valuable catalytic insight into the reactions catalyzed by LigAB and make it the first Type II EDO that is fully characterized both structurally and kinetically.
Five strains of Azomonas macrocytogenes were identified from a collection of aerobic nitrogen-fixing organisms obtained from Alberta soils. The cell morphology, colony appearance, and growth conditions of these five isolates and their use of nitrogen and carbon sources were in good agreement with four standard Azomonas macrocytogenes strains. The new strains did not produce N,N,N′,N′-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine-dependent cytochrome oxidase, were unable to form true cysts, formed blue–white fluorescent compound(s) under iron-limited conditions, and excreted 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid into culture fluids. The detection of this catechol proved to be more reliable and convenient than the observation of the red–violet colour of its ferrated form, which was a variable occurrence in older cultures. Four of the new strains were antagonistic to Agrobacterium tumefaciens and two strains stimulated Erwinia carotovora growth. The new strains also demonstrated nitrogen fixation under molybdate-deficient conditions, ...
Objective: To isolate and elucidate the constituents of herbs of Polygala hongkongensis.Method: The constituents were isolated and purify by chromatographic on silica gel,Sephadax LH-20 and semi-preparative HPLC.The structures were determined by NMR and MS spectral analysis.Result: Six compounds were identified as euxanthone(1),1,3,6-trihydroxyxanthone(2),1,4,7-trihydroxy-3-methoxy-xanthone(3),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(4),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(5), and methy 1 2,5-dihydroxybenzoate(6).Conclusion: The known compounds 1-6 were isolated from this plant for the first time.
The model glycoside compound quercetin-3-O-rutinoside (rutin) was subjected to subcritical water within the temperature range of 120–220 °C, and the hydrothermal degradation products were analyzed. Two kinetic models describing the degradation of this compound in two different atmospheres (N2 and CO2), used for pressure establishment in the reactor, have been developed and compared. Reaction was considered a successive one with three irreversible steps. We confirmed that rutin degradation to quercetin follows first-order kinetics. At higher temperatures quercetin is further degraded in two degradation steps. Formations of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol were described with the zero-order kinetic models. Reaction rate constants for hydrolysis of glycoside to aglycone in a CO2 atmosphere are higher compared to those in a N2 atmosphere, whereas at higher temperatures reaction rate constants for further two successive reactions of aglycone degradation are slightly lower in the presence of CO2. The diff...
Phenolic acids act as primary antioxidants, exhibiting antioxidative potential by donating a hydrogen atom for breaking the free radical chain [7] . The molecular structure (position and number of hydroxyl groups) of phenolic acids has a considerable effect on their antioxidative properties. Phenolic acids with two (protocatechuic acid -3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; caffeic acid -3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid) and more hydroxyl groups in a molecule (gallic acid -3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid) are more effective antioxidants than phenolic acids with only one hydroxyl group (3-or 4-hydroxybenzoic acid). The position of hydroxyl groups is also important, for example, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid has lower antioxidant activity than 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Methylene group (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid) or ethylene group (caffeic acid) inserted between a phenyl ring and carboxylic group brings about the significant changes in antioxidant activity [8] . Derivatives of benzoic acid ( p-hydroxybenzoic, vanillic, syringic, protocatechuic acid) have weaker antioxidant properties than the corresponding analogs of cinnamic acid ( p-coumaric, ferulic, sinapic, caffeic acid) [9] .
Objective To separate and identify the chemical constituents of Cynoglossum amabile Stapf et T.R.Drumm.Methods Chemicals were extracted by 95% ethanol,partitioned sequentially with petroleum ether and chloroform,then purified by silica gel chromatography,and their structures were elucidated by IR,MS and NMR.Results Seven compounds were isolated and five were elucidated as stigmasterol(1),octacosanoic acid(2),daucosterol(3),o-hydroxybenzoic acid(4),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(5) Conclusion Compounds 2,4 and 5 were first reported in Cynoglossum.
Abstract Aqueous extracts were prepared from green, yellow fallen and red fallen leaves of Terminalia catappa L. (Combretaceae) and their antioxidant activity, scavenging and chelating abilities were evaluated. Aqueous extracts from three different leaves showed high antioxidant activities and moderate scavenging abilities on hydroxyl radicals at 1 mg/ml. EC 50 values in antioxidant activity were 0.549–0.557 mg/ml whereas those in scavenging ability on hydroxyl radicals were 0.631–0.686 mg/ml for aqueous extracts prepared from three leaves with boiling water for 3 min. EC50 values in reducing power were 0.15–0.23 mg/ml. EC50 values in scavenging abilities on superoxide anion and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydryl radicals were 0.36–0.44 and 10.4–35.3 mg/ml, respectively. EC50 values in chelating abilities on ferrous and cupric ions were 0.41–2.50 and 8.96–9.89 mg/ml, respectively. Based on the results obtained, the aqueous extracts displayed higher antioxidant properties. Six phenolic compounds identified in the aqueous were p -hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid, m -coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, p -coumaric acid and gallic acid. Therefore, the aqueous extracts from three different leaves of T. catappa might be a potential antioxidant supplement for application in food products or as a drink.
Aromatic hydroxylation from the reaction between hydroxyl radical and salicylate or its related compounds has been often utilized as a marker for the generation of hydroxyl radicals. We have investigated several technical aspects of applying this method to study hydroxyl radical production during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion using the hydroxylation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) to form 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). 4-HBA was administered to rats either through intravenous infusion, or by way of an in vivo microdialysis probe implanted in the brain. Dialysate containing 3,4-DHBA was collected and analyzed by HPLC with electrochemical detection. An endogenous compound was found to co-elute with 3,4 -DHBA but could be separated by varying the chromatographic conditions. Because of interrupted blood flow during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion, delivery of 4-HBA through the microdialysis probe is a preferred method to systemic administration such as intravenous infusion. It is concluded that the oxidation of 4-HBA to 3,4-DHBA can be a reliable and accurate indicator for the formation of hydroxyl radical in vivo if the experiments are well designed to avoid potential pitfalls associated with technical difficulties of the method.
The determination of mono-phenol in grape by HPLC was developed and the chromatographic conditions were as follows: Hibar RT Lichrospher C18 column(250×4.0 mm,5 μm),mobile phase as 16 % acetonitrile in water(containing 1 % acetic acid),flow-rate as 1.0 mL/min,detection wavelength at 280 nm,and injection volume as 10 μL.The content of several mono-phenols(gallic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,syringic acid,ferulic acid,catechin and rutin hydrate) in Pinot Noir and Chardonnay were determined by such method.
The g-tensor components and isotropic hyperfine constants of solvent-affected radical anion from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were computed at UBP86/EPR-II level and correlated with the molecular and electronic structures. The role of solvent was considered in two ways: by using a conductor-like screening model (COSMO) and by adding water molecules, hydrogen bonded to the radical. To reach the best efficiency of the calculations, the theoretical EPR parameters were compared with experimental derived from high-field (406.4 GHz) and X-band spectra. Inclusion of water molecules in the first hydration sphere of the radical appears to be mandatory for correct prediction of its properties.
Summary: Chemotaxis of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli RP8002 towards a range of carbohydrates, phenolic compounds and flavonoids was assayed. Xylose (peak response 10−4 ::: M), sucrose (peak response 10−6 ::: M) and raffinose (peak response 10−5 ::: M) were strong chemoattractants amongst the carbohydrates, whilst glucose, fructose, galactose and maltose produced little or no detectable response. Of the monocyclic phenolic compounds, vanillyl alcohol, p-hydroxybenzoic acid (both peak responses 10−6 ::: M) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (peak response 10−4 ::: M) all evoked strong chemotactic responses. Amongst the nod-inducing flavonoids, apigenin and luteolin were both strong chemoattractants (peaks at 10−5 ::: M) while naringenin produced a very low response. Competition experiments suggest that apigenin and luteolin are recognized by a common receptor, but that there exists a separate receptor for luteolin alone. The inhibitors of nod-induction, umbelliferone and acetosyringone, both produced strong chemotactic responses, with peaks at 10−3 ::: M and 10−2 ::: M respectively. This evidence is indicative of a role for chemotaxis towards nod-inducing flavonoids in the initiation of root nodule formation by rhizobia, and also suggests that chemotaxis may influence the host range of the interaction.
The presence of catechol during the electropolymerisation of phenylene-1,2-diamine from neutral solutions has been shown to result in a significant increase in the incorporation of phenazine redox groups into the polymer backbone. The influence of catechol concentration on the resulting redox polymer activity was investigated and a possible mechanism proposed. The versatility of the method for introducing modified phenazine groups into the polymer structure was investigated through the incorporation of two substituted catechol derivatives, 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The applicability of the polymer for the reduction of cytochrome c in solution was assessed by spectroelectrochemical methods. Copyright (C) 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd
O2 when the brown scales were suspended in water. Brown components isolated from the brown scales also transformed molecular oxygen into H2O2. During the autooxidation process, absorbance in the visible region was increased. On acid hydrolysis of the brown fraction, 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenylglyoxylic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and the quinone form of benzoic acid were detected. In addition, glucose was detected as a sugar. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was preferentially oxidized during autooxidation of the brown fraction. One of the oxidation products was the quinone form. Stable electron spin resonance (ESR) signals were detected in the brown fraction. New ESR signals appeared on oxidation of the brown fraction by hexacyanoferrate (III). One of the newly formed radicals seemed to have a 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl group. Based on these results, possible structures, mechanism of H2O2 formation and biological significance of the brown components are discussed.
Layered double hydroxides (LDHs) are used extensively in medicine as a unique delivery carrier for genes and drugs due to their outstanding properties that make them suitable for delivering to cells. These properties include their good biocompatibility (eg, use as an antacid and anti-peptic agent); 4, 5 less toxic effects compared with other inorganic nanoparticles; 6, 7 high specific surface areas and chemical stability, which have resulted from functionalization and modification of their internal and external surfaces; 8, 9 ability to offer loaded drugs full protection; 10 cell targeting abilities; 11, 12 and ability to be used as controlled-release drug-delivery systems. 13 LDHs, also known as "hydrotalcite-like compounds," are a class of anionic clays. Their structure is based on positively charged brucite-like layers containing hydroxides of metal cations M 2+ and M 3+ . The general formula of an LDH is: where "M 2+ " and "M 3+ " are divalent and trivalent metal cations, respectively, "A m-" refers to an interlayer anion with an m charge, n is the number of water molecules in the interlayer space, and x is the layer charge density. 14 Owing to the efficient drug-delivery feature of LDH nanocarriers, many pharmaceutically active compounds have been successfully intercalated into the interlayer gallery of LDH. Among them are the cardiovascular drugs fluvastatin and pravastatin; 15 anti-inflammatory drugs such as diclofenac 16 and fenbufen; 17 antihypertensive drugs like perindopril erbumine; 18, 19 the antihistamine drug cetirizine hydrochloric acid; 20 and anticancer drugs such as cordycepin, which was intercalated into the gallery of magnesium/ aluminum (Mg/Al)-LDH. It was observed that the resulting nanohybrid had greater stability and a greater suppression effect on U937 cancer cell growth than free cordecypin 3 and methotrexate (MTX). A MTX-Mg/Al nanohybrid had a much stronger inhibition effect on the proliferation of human MNNG-HOS osteosarcoma cancer cells compared with unbound MTX. 1 Various methods have been used to intercalate drugs as guest molecules into LDHs, but the most common methods are direct coprecipitation and ion exchange. 21 Compared with the ion-exchange method, the direct coprecipitation method produces a large quantity of the nanocomposite and there is more risk with this method of carbon dioxide uptake and the incorporation of unwanted hydroxide anions in the reaction mixture. 22, 23 Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) is a natural phenolic acid isolated from a number of popular medicinal plants such as Sudan mallow (Hibiscus sabdariffa L.), 24, 25 St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum L.), 26 and Japanese ginkgo (Ginkgo biloba L.). 27 Previous studies have shown that protocatechuic acid has an amazing antioxidant property. Free radicals, including 2,2-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS), 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl-hydrazyl (DPPH), hydroxyl radical, superoxide anion radicals (
Likewise to the above role for bees, iron is also a limiting factor for growth of aerobic bacteria. In host-pathogen interactions it often plays a crucial role because pathogen and host both compete for the scarce Fe 3+ ions. To this end, many pathogenic bacteria produce and secrete high-affinity small molecule iron chelators, termed siderophores, which serve as iron scavengers to meet iron limitation by sequestering iron from the host. These low molecular weight iron chelators [29, 30] according to their functional groups are assigned to three types: catecholates, a-hydroxy carbolates, and hydroxamates [31, 32] . The most common siderophore in Gram positive bacteria is the catechol bacillibactin, produced by Bacillus subtilis, B. cereus, B. anthracis, B. thuringiensis and B. amyloliquefaciens. [33] [34] [35] . Other catechol type siderophores are paenibactin produced by Paenibacillus elgii [36] and the B. anthracis petrobactin [37] . While bacillibactin and paenibactin contain 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), petrobactin contains the unusual 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as chelating subunit.
Chemotaxis of Rhizobium leguminosarum biovar phaseoli RP8002 towards a range of carbohydrates, phenolic compounds and flavonoids was assayed. Xylose (peak response M) were strong chemoattractants amongst the carbohydrates, whilst glucose, fructose, galactose and maltose produced little or no detectable response. Of the monocyclic phenolic compounds, vanillyl alcohol, p-hydroxybenzoic acid (both peak responses M) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (peak response 1 0-4 M) all evoked strong chemotactic responses. Amongst the nod-inducing flavonoids, apigenin and luteolin were both strong chemoattractants (peaks at M) while naringenin produced a very low response. Competition experiments suggest that apigenin and luteolin are recognized by a common receptor, but that there exists a separate receptor for luteolin alone. The inhibitors of nod-induction, umbelliferone and acetosyringone, both produced strong chemotactic responses, with peaks at loW3 M and M respectively. This evidence is indicative of a role for chemotaxis towards nod-inducing flavonoids in the initiation of root nodule formation by rhizobia, and also suggests that chemotaxis may influence the host range of the interaction.
Abstract In this work, we investigated the heterogeneous reactions between gaseous ozone and seven particulate methoxyphenols, biomass tracers. The ozonolysis of silica particles coated with vanillin, vanillic acid, syringaldehyde, syringic acid, acetovanillone, acetonsyringone and coniferyl alcohol was studied successively and was carried out both in total darkness and under illumination with simulated solar light at 297 K. The condensed-phase products which emerged in such heterogeneous reactions were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). No reaction product was detected during the ozonolysis of vanillic acid, syringic acid, acetovanillone and acetosyringone under our experimental conditions. The main tranformation of pathway vanillin and syringaldehyde was the conversion of an aldehyde group to a carboxylic fonction. Thus, syringic acid and vanillic acid were respectively the main oxidation products of syringaldehyde and vanillin. The oxidation of coniferyl alcohol was relatively fast and the total degradation was observed after 16 h of ozone exposure. Five oxidation products: glycolic acid, oxalic acid, vanillin, vanillic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, were identified and confirmed by their corresponding standards. It is interesting to note that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was detected only in the experiment performed under combined ozone and light exposure of the particles coated with coniferyl alcohol. Vanillin and vanillic acid also absorb light in the tropospheric actinic window and therefore they can be photochemically active which in turn can induce further modifications of the aerosol particles. A mechanistic pathway was proposed in order to elucidate the ozonolysis reaction of coniferyl alcohol and to explain the identified reaction products.
acid) was added toPseudomonas acidovorans growing attheexpenseofsuccinate, enzymes required fordegrading homoprotocatechuate topyruvate andsuccinate semialdehyde were strongly induced. Theseenzymeswereeffectively absentfromcell extracts oftheorganism grown with4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and this substrate was metabolized bythecatabolic enzymesofthehomogentisate pathway. Twoseparate ring-fission dioxygenases for3,4,5-trihydroxy benzoic acid (gallic acid) were present incell extracts ofPseudomonas putida whengrown withsyringic acid, andgallate was degraded byreactions associated withmeta fission. Oneofthetwogallate dioxygenases alsoattacked 3-O-methylgallic acid; theother, whichdidnot, was induced whencells wereexposed togallate. This organism possessed ortho fission enzymes,including protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (EC1.13.11.3) andcis,cis-carboxymuconate-lactonizing enzyme (EC 5.5.1.2), after induction with3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(protocatechuic acid). Gallate was a substrate forprotocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, witha Vmaxabout 3%ofthatofprotocatechuate andwith an apparent Km slightly lower. Gallate was apowerful competitive inhibitor ofprotocatechuate oxidation. Thecontinuous operation oftheearth's carboncycle depends inpartupontheability of microorganisms todegrade chemical structures thatarenotattacked byotherliving forms. Manyofthese structures contain benzene nuclei. Fission ofthenucleus iscatalyzed by microbial dioxygenases acting uponsubstrates thatcontain, asa minimum,twophenolic hydroxyl groups. Thesemaybeattached to adjacent carbon atoms, asincatechols, andthe nucleus canthenbecleaved byortho ormeta fission enzymes, orthehydroxyls maybeplaced across thenucleus inparapositions, asin gentisic andhomogentisic acids. Foranyoneof thenaturally occurring catechols, theenzymes ofitspathway ofcatabolism areusually substrate specific. Thus, themetafission enzymes forcatechol (2,4,20)donotdegrade 4-carboxycatechol (protocatechuic acid; 5,7),andneitherpathway includes enzymes thatdegrade 4-carboxymethylcatechol
From an ethanol extract of Euphorbia micractina roots, seven steroids fifteen aromatic derivatives were isolated by a combination of various chromatographic techniques, including column chromatography over macroporous resin, silica gel, and Sephadex LH-20 and reversed-phase HPLC. Their structures were elucidated by spectroscopic data analysis as stigamast-5-ene-3beta, 7alpha-diol(1), stigamast-5-ene-3beta,7beta-diol(2), stigmast-5-en-3beta-ol-7-one(3), stigmast-4-en-6beta-ol-3-one(4), stigmast-1, 4-dien-3-one(5), stigmast-3,6-dione(6), beta-sitosterol(7), scopoletin(8), aesculetin(9), 6-hydroxy-5,7-dimethoxycoumarin(10), quercetin(11), 3,3', 4'-tri-O-methylellagic acid(12), p-hydroxyphenylethyl anisate(13), m-hydroxyphenylethyl alcohol(14), (E)-cinnamic acid(15), (E)-ferulic acid(16), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(17), vanillic acid(18), p-hydroxybenzoic acid(19), ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (20), ethyl gallate(21), and methyl gallate(22). These compounds were obtained from this plant for the first time.
Forward dissolution rates of Na–Montmorillonite (Wyoming) SWy-2 smectite (Ca0.06Na0.56)[Al3.08Fe(III)0.38Mg0.54] [Si7.93 Al0.07]O20(OH)4 were measured at 25 °C in a mixed-flow reactor equipped with interior dialysis compartment (6–8 kDa membrane) as a function of pH (1–12), dissolved carbonate (0.5–10 mM), phosphate (10−5 to 0.03 M), and nine organic ligands (acetate, oxalate, citrate, EDTA, alginate, glucuronic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gluconate, and glucosamine) in the concentration range from 10−5 to 0.03 M. In organic-free solutions, the Si-based rates decrease with increasing pH at 1 ⩽ pH ⩽ 8 with a slope close to −0.2. At 9 ⩽ pH ⩽ 12, the Si-based rates increase with a slope of ∼0.3. In contrast, non-stoichiometric Mg release weakly depends on pH at 1 ⩽ pH ⩽ 12 and decreases with increasing pH. The empirical expression describing Si-release rates [R, mol/cm2/s] obtained in the present study at 25 °C, I = 0.01 M is given by ::: R=2.2·10-17·aH+0.21+1.0·10-20+6·10-17·aOH-0.33 ::: At circum-neutral pH, the Si-release-based dissolution is promoted by the addition of the following ligands ranked by decreasing effectiveness: EDTA > 3,4-DHBA > citrate ⩾ oxalate. Phosphate, glucuronate, glucosamine, gluconate, alginate, and acetate act as inhibitors of dissolution and HCO3−, CO32− exhibit no effect on dissolution rate. Non-stoichiometric, non-steady-state Mg release was very weakly affected by the presence of ligands. Analysis of reacted solid products using XRD, FT-IR, and XPS revealed no major change in structure, surface chemical composition or specific surface area as a function of pH, ligand concentration, and duration of experiments. Ligand-affected rates re-calculated to constant pH were interpreted using a phenomenological equation which postulates the Langmurian adsorption of a ligand on surface sites. Overall, results of this study demonstrate that very high concentrations (0.001–0.01 M) of organic ligands, whether they are originated from organic matter enzymatic degradation or bacterial metabolic activity are necessary to appreciably affect smectite dissolution. As a result, the effect of natural organics on the weathering rate of smectite is expected to be weak.
Metal ions, especially copper, zinc and iron, play an important role in the neurodegeneration process because they can affect protein misfolding, leading to the formation of the amyloid deposits and oxidative stress leading to reactive oxygen species (ROS). Here we report the synthesis and evaluation as antioxidant and metal chelating agents of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives. Synthesized compounds were tested by the 2,2-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) method showing a radical scavenging ability (EC50=0.093-0.118 μM) higher than Trolox used as reference. Furthermore, these compounds were able to bind both iron and copper, especially the iron (III), by the formation of hexa-coordinated complexes. Synthesized compounds were tested to evaluate their ability to inhibit acetyl- and butyryl-cholinesterase; the obtained results have demonstrated that they are selective inhibitors of AChE (Ki=1.5-18.9 μM) and result weakly active versus butyrylcholinesterase (BChE).
Background: Polyphenol-rich foods, such as grape-derived products, contain a wide array of bioactive phenolic compounds. These phenolic compounds are promising chemo-preventative agents, which can be acquired naturally through diet. A small proportion of orally consumed polyphenols get absorbed in the small intestine, while the majority reach the colon where extensive microbial metabolism occurs converting polyphenols into low molecular weight metabolites, particularly phenolic acids. Evidence is mounting that microbial phenolic metabolites may exert more health impact than their precursors in the body. Therefore, it is critical to accurately identify and quantify microbial phenolic acid metabolites (PAMs), in addition to their precursors, to understand the bioavailability, metabolic pattern and bioactivity of grape polyphenols following consumption. One problem in utilizing grape polyphenols, including the intensively examined (+)-catechin (C) and (-)-epicatechin (EC), is their low bioavailability. According to previous studies regarding the administration of grape polyphenols to rats and daily intake of red wine in human subjects, the accumulation of certain polyphenols and their metabolites can be achieved via long-term dietary intervention. In this study, we conducted a 14-day dietary intervention trial in healthy C57BL6 mice with different doses of C and EC delivered either in pure form or in a complex polyphenol preparation (EC-enriched grape seed extract), followed by an acute dose gavage on the day of sacrifice (day 15). Plasma samples were collected for measuring target grape polyphenols and microbial polyphenol metabolites using a high-throughput, sensitive and reproducible ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (UPLC-QqQ/MS) method operated under dynamic multiple reaction monitoring (dMRM) mode. This new method developed by our research team allowed efficient identification and quantification of 18 grape-derived PAMs along with their precursors, C and EC. After optimizing the entire system, a method validation was conducted by examining blank plasma spiked with a standard mixture at different concentration levels in order to ensure promising sensitivity, selectivity, accuracy, precision and overall recovery of individual analytes. Eighteen target phenolic compounds along with an internal standards ( trans -cinnamic acid-d 7 ) were extracted and quantified in plasma samples from mice using the UPLC-QqQ/MS method. Results showed that the circulatory levels of C and EC were significantly influenced by the delivery matrix, i.e. in pure or polyphenol mixture form. When C and EC were delivered as pure compounds to mice, the elimination of both polyphenols from plasma was considerably less than those found in mice fed with polyphenol mixture 6 h post-gavage particularly in the high dose-treated groups. Higher doses of C/EC also induced more dynamic microbial activity in the production of PAMs. For example, the concentrations of five PAMs (3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propionic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 5-(4-hydroxyphenyl) valeric acid, caffeic acid and hippuric acid) in plasma increased markedly in mice exposed to higher doses of C/EC regardless of the delivery matrices. With respect to the performance of the analytical method, excellent sensitivity and linearity were obtained for all target analytes, with LLODs and LLOQs ranging from 0.225-2.053 ng/mL and 0.698-8.116 ng/mL, respectively. Method validation results further demonstrated the reliability of this new method for bio-analysis. The changes in plasma levels of grape polyphenols and major PAMs in mice indicated the influence of delivery matrix and dose of polyphenols on intestinal absorption and/or elimination of phenolics and on metabolic activity of gut microbiota. In addition, the successful application of the proposed analytical method in the in vivo study demonstrated its suitability for high-throughput analysis of grape polyphenols and their microbial metabolites in more complicated biological studies. How to cite this abstract: Zhao D., Carry E., Pasinetti G.M., Wang J., Ho L., Simon J.E., Wu Q.; FFC’s 22 nd International Conference; Boston, MA, USA; Organized by FFC and BIDMC/ Harvard Medical School Teaching Hospital; Volume 1; Supplement 1: 49-52
The 80%ethanol extracts of the Litchi chinensis pericarp was isolated and purified by Sephadex LH-20,MCI gel CHP 20P,Toyopearl Butly-650Ccolumn chromatography to yield seven phenolic compounds.Their structures were identified by the analysis of spectral data as:p-Hydroxybenzoic acid(1),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2),(+)-catechin(3),(-)-epicatechin(4),procyanidin A2(5),aesculitannin A(6),quercetin-3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(7).All the compounds except 5 were reported fromL.chinensis pericarp for the first time.
During growth under iron limitation, Bacillus cereus and Bacillus anthracis, two human pathogens from the Bacillus cereus group of Gram-positive bacteria, secrete two siderophores, bacillibactin (BB) and petrobactin (PB), for iron acquisition via membrane-associated substrate-binding proteins (SBPs) and other ABC transporter components. Since PB is associated with virulence traits in B. anthracis, the PB-mediated iron uptake system presents a potential target for antimicrobial therapies; its characterization in B. cereus is described here. Separate transporters for BB, PB, and several xenosiderophores are suggested by 55Fe-siderophore uptake studies. The PB precursor, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB), and the photoproduct of FePB (FePBν) also mediate iron delivery into iron-deprived cells. Putative SBPs were recombinantly expressed, and their ligand specificity and binding affinity were assessed using fluorescence spectroscopy. The noncovalent complexes of the SBPs with their respective siderophores we...
Abstract Two new phenanthrenes (4-methoxyphenanthrene-2,3,7-triol and 4-methoxyphenanthrene-2,3,6,7-tetrol) and two new 9,10-dihydrophenanthrenes (5-methoxy-9,10-dihydrophenanthrene-2,3,7-triol and 4-methoxy-9,10-dihydrophenan-threne-2,3,6,7-tetrol), along with the known 4,6-dimethoxyphenanthrene-2,3,7-triol and its 9,10-dihydro derivative, 3,4′,5-trihydroxy-3′-methoxybibenzyl (tristin), dihydroferulic acid, p -coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and (±)-syringaresinol were isolated from the dichloromethane extract of the orchid Bulbophyllum vaginatum . The structures of these compounds were determined through spectroscopic analysis.
Abstract The uranyl and vanadyl complexes formed with salicylic, phthalic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids have been studied by potentiometry in order to determine the stability constants of the MmLn species formed in solution, and the constants for the hydrolysis and polymeric complexes, at 25.0°, in 0.10, 0.40 and 0.70M sodium perchlorate. MINIQUAD was used to process the data to find the best models for the species in solution, and calculate the formation constants. The uranyl-salicylic acid system was also studied by spectrophotometry and the program SQUAD used to process the data obtained. The best models for these systems show that co-ordination of the uranyl ion by carboxylate groups is easier than for the vanadyl ion, whereas the vanadyl ion seems to form more stable complexes with phenolate groups. Both oxo-cations seem to tend to hydrolyse rather than form complexes when the L:M ratios are greater than unity. Although the change in the constants with ionic strength is small, the activity coefficients of the salicylate and phthalate species have been calculated at ionic strengths 0.40 and 0.70M, along with the interaction parameters with Na+, from the stability constants found for the species ML and H2L, according to the Bronsted-Guggenheim expression.
A selective colorimetric assay for fluoride and acetate anion based on alizarin was developed.The effect of hydroxy configuration to anionic complex formation was investigated by UV-vis spectra titration.Results indicated that 1:2 complex between alizarin and fluoride was formed in acetonitrile,however,1:1 complex formed between alizarin and acetate.In the presence of fluoride or acetate,a new Absorption band appeared peaked at 563 nm and 553 nm respectively and the solution of alizarin turned from yellow to purple.However,no detectable color changes were observed in the present of other anions such as dihydrogen phosphate,chloride,bromate and hydrogen sulfate.Absorption spectra properties between the control compounds (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and anions were investigated.In conclusion,alizarin was found to selectively sense fluoride and acetate, this is attributed to the basicity of anions and configuration of receptor.
Chemical investigation of dichloromethane and ethyl acetate extracts from trunk and root barks of Trema orientalis led to the isolation of 16 compounds. Methylswertianin, decussatin, glycosides of decussatin, sweroside, scopoletin, (-)-epicatechin, lupeol, p -hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, adian-5-en-3-one, 2a, 3a, 23-trihydroxyurs-12-en-28-oic acid, 2a, 3s-dihydroxyurs-12-en-28-oic acid, s-sitosterol, 3- O -s-glucopyranosyl-s-sitosterol and hexacosanoic acid were identified by means of their spectral data.
PUFA metabolites have a profound effect on inflammatory diseases and cancer progression. Blocking their production by inhibiting PUFA metabolizing enzymes (dioxygenases: cyclooxygenases and LOXs) might be a successful way to control and relieve such problems, if we learn to better understand their actions at a molecular level. Compounds with strong antioxidative and free radical scavenging properties, such as polyphenols, could be effective in blocking PUFA activities, and natural flavonoids possess such qualities. Quercetin belongs to the group of natural catecholic compounds and is known as a potent, competitive inhibitor of LOX. Structural analysis reveals that quercetin entrapped within LOX undergoes degradation, and the resulting compound has been identified by X-ray analysis as protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) positioned near the iron site. Its C3-OH group points toward His523, C4-OH forms a hydrogen bond with OC from the enzyme's C-terminus, and the carboxylic group is incorporated into the hydrogen bonding network of the active-site neighborhood via Gln514. This unexpected result, together with our previous observations concerning other polyphenols, yields new evidence about the metabolism of natural flavonoids. These compounds might be vulnerable to the co-oxidase activity of LOX, leading to enzyme-stimulated oxidative degradation, which results in an inhibitor of a lower molecular weight. Proteins 2004;54:000–000. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
ABSTRACT 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (2) 
Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) is a soft ionization technique used for the analysis of large nonvolatile molecules such as biopolymers and synthetic polymers. The goal of sample preparation in MALDI analysis is homogeneous cocrystallization of analyte and matrix molecules. The role of the matrix is very crucial in MALDI and many researchers have studied on what is a good matrix. Macha and Limbach discussed about the role of matrix in MALDI analysis. Matrix compounds are still discovered through trial and error because there has not been enough research to investigate what are the factors that affect the functioning of such compounds in MALDI process. The matrix dilutes and isolates polymers in the sample preparation step and plays a role in the analyte desorption and ionization process by absorbing the laser energy at the wavelength used. The ratio of the analyte to the matrix depends on the molecular weight and chemical properties of the analyte. The ratio increases when higher molecular weight sample is analyzed. In general, the molar ratio of the analyte to the matrix ranges from 1:10 to 1:10. Dihydroxybenzoic acid has many isomers such as 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. Among them, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid has the most absorption coefficient at a wavelength of 337 nm. 2,5-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) is commonly used for the analysis of synthetic polymers as well as biopolymers. Some polar matrices such as 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxy-cinnamic acid, α-cyano-4-hydroxy-cinnamic acid, and methyl salicyclic acid interact well with biopolymers while some polar matrices such as 2-(4-hydroxyphenylazo)-benzoic acid (HABA), all-trans-retinoic acid (RTA), and dithranol work for synthetic polymers. Nonpolar matrices such as anthracene, pyrene, acenaphthene, and terthiophene are suitable for nonpolar samples. In a MALDI mass spectrum, the protonated molecule and cation adduct of an analyte give an important information about the molecular ion mass. Some researchers reported that sliver clusters can be effectively produced under MALDI conditions from sliver salts in the presence of matrices. During the analysis of organic molecules when Ag is used as the cationizing agent, it can be recognized that besides the desired adduct ions, [M + Ag], an additional silver cluster ions, Agn . Study on metal cluster formation in gas-phase by mass spectrometry provides valuable information on the stability and electronic properties of the metal clusters depending on the sizes and this information can be utilized when the clusters are immersed into a liquid or solid environment. One of useful methods to generate silver cluster ions is MALDI using silver salts and matrices. Keki and coworkers studied the matrix effect on the formation of the silver cluster ions under MALDI conditions using reductive polar organic matrices and silver trifluoroacetate (AgTFA) and reported that the silver cluster ions were effectively produced and the matrix greatly influenced the resulting cluster ion abundances. Properties of metal salts are depending on the kind of the counter anions as well as the metal types. It can be expected that the formation of the silver cluster ions in MALDI will be affected by the counter anions of silver salts. However, this investigation has not been sufficiently carried out. In the present work, we investigated the influence of the silver salt types on the formation of silver clusters in MALDI conditions and experimental results were explained with the interactions and reactions between the silver salt and the matrix, DHB. The MALDI mass spectrum of the AgBz shows the silver cluster ion intensity distribution with an odd-even alternation pattern as shown in Figure 1. The intensity of the oddnumber cluster ions tends to be stronger than that of the neighboring even-number cluster ions. The mass spectrum also shows the clear magic numbers of n = 21 and 35 of Agn . The magic number of n = 21 is in good agreement
Abstract In addition to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and (−)-epicatechin, a new glycoside of the latter has been isolated from the methanolic extract of the stem bark of Brosimopsis acutifolium . Its structure was established to be (−)-epicatechin 5- O -β- d -xylopyranoside on the basis of spectroscopic and chemical methods.
Photoluminescence spectra of YVO4:Eu3+ nanoparticles are presented, with and without the attachment of organic molecules that are proposed for linking to biomolecules. YVO4:Eu3+ nanoparticles with 5% dopant concentration were synthesized via wet chemical synthesis. X-ray diffraction and transmission electron microscopy show the expected wakefieldite structure of tetragonal particles with an average size of 17 nm. Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy determines that metal-carboxylate coordination is successful in replacing native metal-hydroxyl bonds with three organic linkers, namely, benzoic acid, 3-nitro 4-chloro-benzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, in separate treatments. UV-excitation photoluminescence spectra show that the position and intensity of the dominant 5D0 – 7F2 electric-dipole transition at 619 nm are unaffected by the benzoic acid and 3-nitro 4-chloro-benzoic acid treatments. Attachment of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid produces an order-of-magnitude quenching in the photoluminescenc...
The antioxidant activity and identification of the antioxidant component of peanut seed testa were investigated. The antioxidant activity of peanut seed testa was studied in the linoleic acid model system by using the ferric thiocyanate method. Among the five organic solvent extracts, the ethanolic extracts of peanut seed testa (EEPST) produced higher yields and stronger antioxidant activity than other organic solvent extracts. EEPST was separated into 17 fractions on silica gel column chromatography. Fraction 17, which showed the largest yield and significant antioxidant activity, was separated by thin-layer chromatography. Four major antioxidative subfractions were present. Subfraction 17-2 was found to be effective in preventing oxidation of linoleic acid. This subfraction was further fractionated and isolated and characterized by UV, MS, IR, and (1)H NMR techniques. The active compound was identified as ethyl protocatechuate (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester).
The antioxidative properties of 0.02% α-tocopherol, quercetin, morin, caffeic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, thymol and carvacrol were studied during the autoxidation of triacylglycerols of lard (TGL) and triacylglycerols of sunflower oil (TGSO) at room temperature. The stabilization factor (F) as a measure of effectiveness, the oxidation rate ratio (ORR) as a measure of strength, and activity (A) which combines the above two factors, were determined. The antioxidative behaviours of the antioxidants (AH) were compared on the basis of their molar activities (MA), (MA= A/[AH], M -1 ). It has been established that in TGL the molar activity of the antioxidants increased in the folowing order: carvacrol < thymol < α-tocopherol < morin < 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid < quercetin < caffeic acid, whereas in TGSO it increased as follows: carvacrol < 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid < morin < quercetin < thymol < α-tocopherol < caffeic acid.
Sixteen antioxidative active compounds isolated from the EtOAc layer of MeOH extracts of kochujang, Korean fermented red pepper paste, were structurally elucidated as fumaric acid, methyl succinate, succinic acid furan-2-yl ester methyl ester (gochujangate, a novel compound), 2-hydroxy-3-phenylpropanoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 6,7-dihydroxy-2H-chromen-2-one (esculetin), caffeic acid, cis-p-coumaric acid, trans-p-coumaric acid, daidzin, genistin, apigenin 7-O-β-D-apiofuranosyl(1→2)-β-D-glucopyranoside, apigenin 7-O-β-Dglucopyranoside, and quercetin 3-O-α-L-rhamnopyranoside by mass spectrometry (MS) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments. These compounds were analyzed for the first time as antioxidants from kochujang.
The equilibrium reactions of yttrium(III) ion with dihydroxybenzoic acids (2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA)) (H(3)L) were investigated in aqueous solution by means of potentiometric and spectroscopic methods, in 0.1 mol.l(-1) ionic strength medium at 25 degrees C. The stability constants are reported for YL, YL(HL)(2-) and YL(2)(3-)- type mononuclear complexes. 2,3-DHBA can bind Y(III) ion strongly and the salicylate mode is effective over the acidic pH range. But in higher pH range, 2,3-DHBA and 3,4-DHBA act more efficiently through catecholate groups. The complexes of 2,3-DHBA are more stable than the complexes of 3,4-DHBA.
The use of the endogenous substrate provides significant information of COMT in vivo as compared with formerly reported method which uses an artificial substrate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA). Endogenous NE has higher affinity for COMT than DBA, and our method is more sensitive to measure COMT activity. In this study, COMT activities were evaluated in cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, brain stem, hypophysis, and hypothalamus in order to evaluate the role of COMT in blood pressure regulation using spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. In addition, in order to investigate the contribution of COMT activities to NE metabolism, NE and its 3-Omethyl metabolite, normetanephrine (NMN), concentrations were examined in discrete areas of SHR and WKY rats.
A flow injection electrochemiluminescent inhibition method has been developed for the determination of some catechol derivatives based on studying the inhibition phenomena of these compounds to the electrochemiluminescence of luminol. The linear calibration range of 5x10(-8) to 1x10(-5), 5x10(-8) to 1x10(-5) and 1x10(-8) to 5x10(-5) mol l(-1(,)) the detection limit of 1.2x10(-8), 2.1x10(-8) and 5.2x10(-9) mol l(-1)were obtained for catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and chlorogenic acid, respectively. The method has higher sensitivity and wider dynamic range than conventional spectrophotometric method or chemiluminescent method. The method has been successfully applied to determine chlorogenic acid in cigarettes. The mechanism of the inhibition effect was proposed. Catechol derivatives mostly react with the freshly electrogenerated oxygen species on the electrode surface and lead to the inhibition of electrochemiluminescence.
The antioxidant substance in black onion was identified. The assays that used 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazo line-6-sulphonic acid) (ABTS+) radicals showed that the ethyl acetate fraction of black onion methanol extract had a higher level of radical-scavenging activity than the other fractions. Two antioxidative compounds were purified and isolated from the ethyl acetate fraction via column chromatographies of silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 using the guided DPPH radical-scavenging assay. The isolated compounds were identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) and quercetin (2) based on mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance. The isolated compounds showed a high level of DPPH and ABTS+ radical-scavenging activity. Compound 2 had a higher level of radical-scavenging activity than 1.
Abstract The extent of phenolic compounds’ biodegradation was assessed utilizing un-treated olive mill wastewater (OMWW) fed to a high-rate thermophilic (55 οC) anaerobic upflow packed bed reactor (UPBR) and digester effluents (DEs) collected in different hydraulic retention times (HRTs) under steady-state operating conditions. In parallel, the toxicity of each sample was evaluated by performing the microbiotest Thamnotoxkit F™. The outcomes indicate complete biodegradation of 6 phenolic compounds-vanillic acid (VA), caffeic acid (CA), syringic acid (SA), o-coumaric acid (o-CA), oleuropein (OLEU), 4-ethylphenol (4-EP)-and notable removals of hydroxytyrosol (HT) and tyrosol (TYR), reaching up to 94.87 ± 0.04% and 93.92 ± 0.33%, respectively. 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (PHBA), p-coumaric acid (p-CA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA) were recognized as the most recalcitrant and persistent compounds in the anaerobic effluents, being capable of modulating the toxic potential of DEs.
Degradation studies of the propylparaben (PrP), butylparaben (BuP) and of the propylparaben-butylparaben mixture (PrP-BuP) in deionized water and surface river water was investigated as a function of pH and initial concentration of the reactants using a medium-pressure mercury lamp. The photolysis of parabens (concentration ranging from 5 to 30 mg L-1) followed apparent pseudo-first-order kinetics, with rate constants (k) in deionized water and surface river water changed from 1.80 × 10-1 to 3.68 × 10-2 min-1 and 1.43 × 10-1 to 1.45 × 10-2 min-1, respectively. Degradation reaction was faster at pH 5 in comparison with pH 7 or 11. The photolysis of parabens was greater than 91%, with low mineralization (26.15%) observed in acidic medium after 95 min. Analysis by chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) showed that only one product was generated during the degradation reaction and has UV bands similar to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Estrogenic activity tests showed that non-degraded parabens stimulated the growth of breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells and this effect was evaluated after the photolysis. Cytotoxicity assays using fibroblasts cells (Balb/C 3T3 clone A31) indicated that the parental compounds and degradation products were not cytotoxic. On the contrary, non-degraded parabens were toxic to Ceriodaphnia dubia, but the product of photolysis was not. Overall, the photolytic method presented was able to degrade these parabens providing safe and non-estrogenic reaction product.
Advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) are associated with many pathogenic disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, pathogenesis of diabetes, atherosclerosis or endothelial dysfunction leading to cardiovascular events. Clusiaceae and Calophyllaceae families are rich in compounds like polyphenols which are able to inhibit their formation and are therefore of great interest. Calophyllum flavoramulum Hend. & Wyatt-Sm., a native Malaysian plant, was selected after an anti-AGEs screening conducted on DCM and MeOH extracts from plants belonging to these aforementioned families. In a first study, bioguided fractionation of the MeOH leaf extract of C. flavoramulum afforded amentoflavone, 3-methoxy-2-hydroxyxanthone, 3,4-dihydroxy-tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxylic acid, quercitrin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, canophyllol and apetalactone. Amentoflavone and 3-methoxy-2-hydroxyxanthone were found to be very potent (IC(50)=0.05 and 0.06 mM respectively), while anti-AGEs activities of quercitrin and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid appeared as moderately strong (IC(50)=0.5 mM). In a second study, a systematic phytochemical study of the cyclohexane, DCM and EtOAc extracts obtained from the same plant was conducted to isolate the following products: flavoramulone, 6-deoxyjacareubin, rheediachromenoxanthone, 2,3-dihydroamentoflavone and benzoic acid. 3,4-Dihydroxy-tetrahydrofuran-3-carboxylic acid and flavoramulone were isolated for the first time and their structures were identified by means of IR, MS and NMR spectrometries.
In this study, physicochemical properties and bioactive compounds of three grape varieties (Cardinal, Müşküle and Razaki) harvested at the three different harvest times (on time, one and two weeks earlier) were investigated. The highest antioxidant activity, total phenolic and flavonoid contents were observed in Razaki pulp and these were 82.854%, 127.422 mg/100 g, 3.873 mg/g, respectively. The contents of bioactive compounds in grape seeds were found higher than those in pulps. Similarly, seed of Razaki had higher antioxidant activity (91.267%) and total phenolic content (477.500 mg/100 g) when compared to results of other varieties. The key phenolic compounds of all grape variety and seeds were gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, (+)-catechin ve 1,2-dihydroxybenzene. The oil content of grape seeds ranged from 8.50% (Razaki harvested one week ago) to 19.024% (Müşküle harvested one week ago). The main fatty acids of grapeseed oils were linoleic, oleic and palmitic acids. In addition, the oil of Razaki seeds was rich in tocopherols when compared to the other varieties.
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the chemical constituents from the roots of Distylium myricoides. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: The chemical constituents were isolated and separated with chromatographic techniques, and structures were identified by spectroscopic methods. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: Eight phenolic compounds were isolated and identified as: 4-hydroxy-2-methoxyphenol 1-O-beta-D-(6'-O-galloyl) glucopyranoside (1), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-phenol 1-O-beta-D-(6'-O-galloyl) glucopyranoside (2), 3,4,5-tri methoxyphenol 1-O-beta-D-(6'-O-galloyl) glucopyranoside (3), 1,2,3,4,6-penta-O-galloyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (4), methyl gallate (5), ethyl gallate (6), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (7), gallic acid (8). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: All compounds were isolated from the genus Distylium for the first time.
Uranium LIII-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) analysis was carried out on aqueous uranium(VI) complexes with monomeric intermediates of the natural wood-degradation process such as protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), catechol (2-hydroxyphenol), pyrogallol (1,2,3-trihydroxybenzol), and vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid). The structural parameters of the 1:1 complexes with protocatechuic acid and vanillic acid in weakly acidic solution indicate that the carboxylic group coordinates the uranyl cation in a bidentate mode in the equatorial plane. Based on the identical structural parameters observed for protocatechuic acid, catechol and pyrogallol in alkaline media, we conclude that the coordination with uranium occurs via the neighboring OH groups of the phenols under formation of a five-membered ring.
Sixteen compounds were isolated from the ethyl acetate portion of the aerial part of Inula wissmanniana,including six flavonoids,five phenylpropanoids,and five other aromatic compounds.On the basis of spectral data,their structures were identified as luteolin(1),3-O-methylquercetin(2),5,6,4'-trihydroxy-3,7-dimethoxyflavone(3),artemetin(4),taxifolin(5),dihydrokaempferol(6),3,4-di-O-caffeoyl quinic acid(7),3,5-di-O-caffeoylquinic acid(8),C-veratroylglycol(9),2,3-dihydroxy-1-(4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-propanone(10),caffeic acid(11),dibutylphthalate(12),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(13),3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid(14),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(15) and vanillin(16).All the compounds were isolated from this plant for the first time.
Objective To isolate the chemical constituents and elucidate their structures from the involucres of Castanea mollissima Blume.Methods Compounds were isolated by column chromatography on silica gel columns,Sephadex LH-20 and preparative HPLC methods.Physical-chemical properties and spectral analysis were employed for the structural elucidation.Results Ten compounds were obtained and identified as 8-(3,5-dihydroxyphenyl)-1-propyloctyl 2,4-dihydroxy-6-undecylbenzoate(1),dibutylmalate(2),quercetin(3),kaempferol(4),tiliroside(5),kaempferol-3-O-[2″,6″-di-O-(E)-p-coumaroyl]-glucopyranoside(6),3′,3″-dimethoxylarreatricin(7),emodin(8),ursolic acid(9),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(10),respectively.Conclusions Compounds 1 and 2 are isolated from this genus for the first time,and compound 8 is isolated from this plant for the first time,while,all compounds are reported for the involucre part firstly.
Sevoflurane has been reported to generate oxygen free radicals. We have investigated whether sevoflurane or isoflurane enhances oxygen free radical formation in the post-ischaemic reperfused heart. An isolated rat heart-lung preparation was used. Thirty male Wistar rats were allocated to four groups: control, no drug, 2.5% sevoflurane and 1.4% isoflurane. The heart was perfused initially at a cardiac output of 30 mL min-1 and a mean arterial pressure of 70 mmHg. Ten minutes after the start of perfusion, the heart was rendered globally ischaemic for 10 min by reducing the preload and afterload to zero. Then, the heart was reperfused for 10 min. At the end of reperfusion, the heart was freeze dried for 6 days. The perfusate blood was collected just before and just after ischaemia and at the end of reperfusion. The formation of hydroxyl radicals in perfusate blood and heart was measured with high-performance liquid chromatography using salicylic acid. Hydroxyl radicals react with salicylic acid, yielding 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Before and after ischaemia, there were no significant differences in cardiac output, systolic pressure, heart rate and right arterial pressure among the groups. The concentrations of 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5- and 3,4-DHBA in the perfusate blood after ischaemia and reperfusion were significantly higher than those before ischaemia in all groups. However, there were no differences in the DHBA levels among groups. This study indicates that sevoflurane and isoflurane do not enhance hydroxyl radical formation in the post-ischaemic reperfused heart.
Abstract Although LDL esterified polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) contribute largely to the pool of oxidizable lipids in plasma, they coexist with a non-negligible content of free PUFA. In some pathological conditions, the free PUFA/albumin ratio becomes abnormally elevated. Modeling was performed in a system constituted of linoleic acid bound to human serum albumin (HSA) in which oxidation was initiated by hydrophilic AAPH. Inhibition of lipid peroxidation was evaluated for various flavonoids. The accumulations of hydroperoxyoctadecadienoic acids (HPODE), hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids (HODE) and ketooctadecadienoic acids (KODE) were similarly inhibited : isoquercitrin > quercetin > catechin = isorhamnetin ≫ kaempferol > quercetin-4′-β- d -glucoside = quercetin-3,4′-di-β- d -glucoside. Surprisingly, quercetin and isorhamnetin afforded a protection to linoleic acid long after their consumption. Elucidation by mass spectrometry and NMR of the quercetin oxidation products and assessment of their antioxidant capacity pointed out that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2-(3,4-dihydroxybenzoyl)-2,4,6-trihydroxybenzofuran-3(2H)-one are major contributors to the apparent quercetin antioxidant capacity.
A new phenolic glycoside, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid 4-O-(4'-O-methyl)-beta-D-glucopyranoside (1), was isolated from the roots of Lygodium japonicum. The structure was elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic methods.
Abstract In this study, physicochemical properties and bioactive compounds of three grape varieties (Cardinal, Müşküle and Razaki) harvested at the three different harvest times (on time, one and two weeks earlier) were investigated. The highest antioxidant activity, total phenolic and flavonoid contents were observed in Razaki pulp and these were 82.854%, 127.422 mg/100 g, 3.873 mg/g, respectively. The contents of bioactive compounds in grape seeds were found higher than those in pulps. Similarly, seed of Razaki had higher antioxidant activity (91.267%) and total phenolic content (477.500 mg/100 g) when compared to results of other varieties. The key phenolic compounds of all grape variety and seeds were gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, (?)-catechin ve 1,2-dihydroxybenzene. The oil content of grape seeds ranged from 8.50% (Razaki harvested one week ago) to 19.024% (Müşküle harvested one week ago). The main fatty acids of grapeseed oils were linoleic, oleic and palmitic acids. In addition, the oil of Razaki seeds was rich in tocopherols when compared to the other varieties.
Adsorption of three phenolic acids, namely parahydroxybenzoic acid (4-hydroxybenzoic acid, H2Phb), protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, H2Proto) and gallic acid (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, H2Gal) onto α,γ-Al2O3 particles was studied vs. ligand concentration at pH 5.0, and vs. pH. The oxide surface was characterized with both potentiometric titrations and electrophoretic measurements; a difference in the point of zero salt effect (PZSE) and the isoelectric point (IEP) was evidenced, which could be attributed to the presence of impurities or to the heterogeneity of the oxide. The potentiometric titration experiments lead to the determination of a PZSE of 8.5. Moreover, the particular shape of the curves were fitted in the framework of the constant capacitance model (CCM), using FITEQL 4.0 software, to determine the oxide parameters (protolytic properties and site density). The electrophoretic measurements were fitted in the framework of the double diffuse layer model (DLM) and an IEP of 9.5 was determined. The constant-pH isotherms of the acids were fitted using the CCM. Constant-pH isotherms of H2Gal and H2Proto onto the Al2O3 surface sites at pH 5 were similar. Two adsorption sites of different affinities were clearly evidenced for H2Gal and can also be proposed for H2Proto. H2Phb showed a lower affinity for the surface than the two other acids, as the logKsorb for H2Phb is one and a half time lower than the one for H2Proto when adsorption is described with one adsorption site. As expected for a carboxylic acid, adsorption of H2Phb decreased with pH and experimental data were well fitted using three adsorbed species (=MOH2H2Phb+, =MHPhb−, and =MPhb−). Adsorption of H2Proto and H2Gal did not change significantly upon increasing pH, meaning that the different functional groups on the aromatic ring (carboxylate and phenolate) were involved in adsorption as pH increases. Dissolution of the oxide was also estimated by measuring the amount of soluble aluminum at pH 5. Increasing acid concentration promoted dissolution, especially for the low concentration range ([acid] < 3 mmol L−1), but higher acid concentration lowers the increase of the solubility increase, likely due to adsorption on surface of an aluminum-organic complex
BACKGROUND ::: Sphingomonas paucimobilis SYK-6 utilizes an extradiol-type catecholic dioxygenase, the LigAB enzyme (a protocatechuate 4,5-dioxygenase), to oxidize protocatechuate (or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PCA). The enzyme belongs to the family of class III extradiol-type catecholic dioxygenases catalyzing the ring-opening reaction of protocatechuate and related compounds. The primary structure of LigAB suggests that the enzyme has no evolutionary relationship with the family of class II extradiol-type catecholic dioxygenases. Both the class II and class III enzymes utilize a non-heme ferrous center for adding dioxygen to the substrate. By elucidating the structure of LigAB, we aimed to provide a structural basis for discussing the function of class III enzymes. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The crystal structure of substrate-free LigAB was solved at 2.2 A resolution. The molecule is an alpha2beta2 tetramer. The active site contains a non-heme iron coordinated by His12, His61, Glu242, and a water molecule located in a deep cleft of the beta subunit, which is covered by the alpha subunit. Because of the apparent oxidation of the Fe ion into the nonphysiological Fe(III) state, we could also solve the structure of LigAB complexed with a substrate, PCA. The iron coordination sphere in this complex is a distorted tetragonal bipyramid with one ligand missing, which is presumed to be the O2-binding site. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The structure of LigAB is completely different from those of the class II extradiol-type dioxygenases exemplified by the BphC enzyme, a 2,3-dihydroxybiphenyl 1,2-dioxygenase from a Pseudomonas species. Thus, as already implicated by the primary structures, no evolutionary relationship exists between the class II and III enzymes. However, the two classes of enzymes share many geometrical characteristics with respect to the nature of the iron coordination sphere and the position of a putative catalytic base, strongly suggesting a common catalytic mechanism.
In nutritional studies, polyphenolic compounds are considered to be inhibitors of Fe bioavailability. Because they are presumed to act in a similar manner, total polyphenols are commonly measured via the Folin–Ciocalteu colorimetric assay. This study measured the content of polyphenolic compounds in white and black beans and examined the effect of individual polyphenols on iron uptake by Caco-2 cells. Analysis of seed coat extracts by LC-MS revealed the presence of a range of polyphenols in black bean, but no detectable polyphenols in white bean. Extracts from black bean seed coats strongly inhibited iron uptake. Examination of the eight most abundant black bean seed coat, non-anthocyanin polyphenols via Caco-2 cell assays showed that four (catechin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, kaempferol, and kaempferol 3-glucoside) clearly promoted iron uptake and four (myricetin, myricetin 3-glucoside, quercetin, and quercetin 3-glucoside) inhibited iron uptake. The four inhibitors were present in 3-fold higher total co...
Abstract Whole haemolymph of the adult female American cockroach was homogenized in distilled water and the extract subjected to column chromatography on Sepharose-6B. The partially purified enzyme, when incubated with the appropriate cofactors, was capable of catalyzing several reactions. With pyridoxal-phosphate and NAD but without the addition of copper, l - 14 C(U)-tyrosine was metabolized to tyramine, octopamine, p- hydroxymandelic acid, p- hydroxybenzaldehyde , p- hydroxybenzylalcohol , p- hydroxybenzoic acid, p- hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid, p- hydroxyphenylacetic acid, p- hydroxyphenyllactic acid, and p- hydroxyphenylpropionic acid. The major metabolites of l -2′- 14 C-tyramine were octopamine, p- hydroxymandelic acid and p- hydroxybenzoic acid. Further experiments using the crude homogenate and unlabeled substrates showed that octopamine was metabolized to p- hydroxymandelic acid and that it produced p- hydroxybenzaldehyde , p- hydrosybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid). These results suggest the following pathway exists for the synthesis of protocatechuic acid: tyrosine → tyramine → octopamine → p- hydroxymandelic acid → p- hydroxyphenylglyoxylic acid and/or p- hydroxybenzylalcohol → p- hydroxybenzaldehyde → p- hydroxybenzoic acid→protocatechuic acid. Hydroxylation of the p- hydroxy compounds occurred in the presence of copper but at different rates. The initial transamination and/or deamination of tyrosine to the p- hydroxypyruvate is apparently not instrumental in the synthesis of protocatechuic acid although the results of this investigation do not offer conclusive evidence concerning this question.
This study investigated the effect of antioxidants on lipid stability of frozen-stored meat products. Buckwheat hull extract was used to enrich fried meatballs made from ground pork. During 180-d storage of meat products, lipid oxidation (peroxide and 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances [TBARS] value) was periodically monitored. The results were compared with butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT). The addition of antioxidants decreased lipid oxidation in stored meatballs. The highest ability to control peroxide and TBARS values was demonstrated for buckwheat hull extract. Moreover, buckwheat hull extract showed a higher 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl free radical scavenging activity as well as higher Fe(II) ion chelating ability, as compared with BHT. The total content of phenolic compounds are highly correlated to the individual polyphenols in extract of buckwheat hull, among which the following were assayed: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid, isovanillic acid and p-coumaric acid, and flavonoids: isoorientin, quercetin, quercetin 3-d-glucoside, rutin, and vitexin. These results indicate that plant extracts can be used to prolong shelf life of products by protecting them against lipid oxidation and deterioration of their nutritional quality. Nutritional and health aspects shed new light on the use of antioxidants in food technology. Polyphenolic compounds extracted from numerous plants have a high potential as materials for functional food development and production. Production of buckwheat groats generated by-products, such as bran and hull, which apart from high content of dietary fiber, may also constitute valuable sources of antioxidants. They would form an ideal base for the design of a new generation of foods.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of the root of Lygodium japonicum(Thunb.)Sw.Methods The chemical constituents were isolated by chromatography and identified by analysis of spectral data and comparison with literature.Results Five compounds were isolated from Lygodium japonicum(Thunb.)Sw..The structures were indentified as benzoic acid(1),apigenin(2),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid 4-O-(4′-O-methyl)-β-D-glucopyranoside(3),makisterone C(4),di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate(5).Conclusions Compounds 1,2 and 5 are isolated from the plant for the first time.
Photoreduced flavins react very rapidly with molecular oxygen to give the superoxide anion. This radical is highly reactive with cytochrome c and p-nitro blue tetrazolium salts. The reduction of these electron acceptors under aerobic conditions is strongly inhibited by catechols such as 1,2-dihydroxybenzene-3,5-disulfonate (Tiron) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Tiron also is essential for the photosensitized reoxidation of ferrocytochrome c in the presence of flavins and oxygen. These findings support a proposal that catechols react rapidly with superoxide anion to yield a new oxidizing species. This fast reaction effectively prevents the oxygen radical from participating in slower oxidation–reduction processes. Inhibition by Tiron of the oxygen-dependent catalytic reduction of electron acceptors is therefore indicative of the participation of enzymatically generated superoxide anion. The proposed explanation of the observed phenomena does not require interaction of the catechol inhibitor with the iron–su...
Outer scales of yellow onion bulbs turn brown during maturing. The brown outer scales contain an antifungal component, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. An aim of the present study is to elucidate the mechanism of formation of the benzoic acid. In a browning scale, the scale was divided into three areas; fleshy, drying and dried brown areas. Levels of quercetin glucosides in dried brown areas were less than 10% of the glucosides in fleshy and drying areas, whereas levels of quercetin were high in dried brown areas. This result suggests that quercetin was formed by deglucosidation of quercetin glucosides on the border between drying and dried brown areas. Peroxidase (POX) activity of dried brown areas was about 10% of those of fleshy and drying areas. Quercetin was oxidized by autooxidation, and cell-free extracts of drying areas and POX isolated from onion scales enhanced the oxidation even in the absence of externally added hydrogen peroxide. The enhancement of quercetin oxidation was suppressed by catalase. No tyrosinase-like activity was detected in the cell-free extracts and the POX preparation. These results suggest that, during the enhanced oxidation of quercetin, hydrogen peroxide is formed. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenylglyoxylic acid, which were the oxidation products of quercetin, were found in dried brown area. These results suggest that an antifungal agent 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid is formed by POX-dependent oxidation of quercetin on browning of onion scales.
Abstract 1. 1. The thermal decomposition of chorismic acid has been studied. When chorismic acid is heated at 100° for 10 min in 0.05 M HCl, the main products are 4-hydroxybenzoic, phenylpyruvic and 3,4-dihydro-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. Heating chorismic acid in 1 M HCl results in the formation of 4-hydroxybenzoic, phenylpyruvic and 3-hydroxybenzoic acids and heating in 1 M NaOH yields 4-hydroxybenzoic, 4-hydroxyphenyllactic and 3-(1′-carboxyvinyloxy)benzoic acids. 2. 2. The isolation, identification and properties of 3,4-dihydro-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3-(1′-carboxyvinyloxy)benzoic acid are described in detail. The absolute stereochemistry of the former compound was determined from the tartaric acid obtained following ozonolysis. 3. 3. The enzymic and nonenzymic transformations of chorismic acid and related cyclohexadienes are summarised.
Polyphenolic compounds including a number of natural products such as resveratrol, curcumin, catechin derivatives, and nordihydroguaiaretic acid have effects on the assembly of Aβ fibrils and oligomers as well as on fibril morphology. Based on a lead structure obtained from a screen of a small molecule diversity library, simple benzoic acid derivatives distinguished by the number and position of hydroxyls on the aromatic ring displayed different abilities to dissociate preformed biotinyl-Aβ(1–42) oligomers. The 2,3-, 2,5-, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) isomers were active oligomer dissociators. The remaining DHBA isomers and the monohydroxy and unsubstituted benzoic acids were inactive and did not compete with the active compounds to block oligomer dissociation. None of the compounds blocked oligomer assembly, indicating that they do not interact with monomeric Aβ to shift the oligomer–monomer equilibrium. Dissociating activity was not associated with quinone redox cycling capacity of the compounds...
Outer scales of yellow onion bulbs turn brown during maturing. The brown outer scales contain an antifungal component, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. An aim of the present study is to elucidate the mechanism of formation of the benzoic acid. In a browning scale, the scale was divided into three areas; fleshy, drying and dried brown areas. Levels of quercetin glucosides in dried brown areas were less than 10% of the glucosides in fleshy and drying areas, whereas levels of quercetin were high in dried brown areas. This result suggests that quercetin was formed by deglucosidation of quercetin glucosides on the border between drying and dried brown areas. Peroxidase (POX) activity of dried brown areas was about 10% of those of fleshy and drying areas. Quercetin was oxidized by autooxidation, and cell-free extracts of drying areas and POX isolated from onion scales enhanced the oxidation even in the absence of externally added hydrogen peroxide. The enhancement of quercetin oxidation was suppressed by catalase. No tyrosinase-like activity was detected in the cell-free extracts and the POX preparation. These results suggest that, during the enhanced oxidation of quercetin, hydrogen peroxide is formed. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenylglyoxylic acid, which were the oxidation products of quercetin, were found in dried brown area. These results suggest that an antifungal agent 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid is formed by POX-dependent oxidation of quercetin on browning of onion scales.
The onion bulb as it matures has one to three outer dried scales consisting of dead tissue which are, in colored cultivars, the most highly pigmented. Quercetin is found as a major flavonoid in the dried brown tissue (Bilyk et al. 1984) . In the underlying scales, quercetin is found as the glucosides (Bilyk et al. 1984 , Hirota et al. 1998 . Predominants among the glucosides are quercetin 4¢-glucoside (Q4¢G) and quercetin 3,4¢-diglucoside (Q3,4¢G). These glucosides are mainly contained in the abaxial epidermis of the scales. Concentrations of the two glucosides and ratios of Q4¢G to Q3,4¢G in concentration, increase from the interior to the exterior scales (Hirota et al. 1998, Tsushida and Suzuki 1996) . In addition to the glucosides, small amounts of quercetin are also found in the abaxial epidermis. Quercetin levels also increase from the interior to the exterior scales (Tsushida and Suzuki 1996) . Quercetin in dried brown scales seems to be formed by deglucosidation of the glucosides (Hirota et al. 1999, Tsushida and Suzuki 1996) . Both quercetin and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, which is antifungal, are found in the dried brown tissue (Friend 1979, Walker and Stahman 1955) . At present, it is not yet known how the benzoic acid is accumulated in the dried brown tissue.
The objective of the present study is to understand how quercetin and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid are accumulated in the dried brown tissue. To elucidate the mechanism of accumulation of quercetin, levels of quercetin glucosides and activities of enzymes that participate in metabolism of the glucosides were measured in scales where browning is proceeding. Then, oxidation of quercetin by cell-free extracts of browning areas and by partially purified peroxidase (POX) was studied in the absence of externally added H 2 O 2 to elucidate the mechanism of oxidation of quercetin. Finally, POX-dependent oxidation products of quercetin were compared with phenolics in the dried brown tissue to discuss the mechanism of formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
The application of layered double hydroxide-Al2 O3 -polymer mixed-matrix disks for solid-phase extraction is reported for the first time. Al2 O3 is embedded in a polymer matrix followed by an in situ metal-exchange process to obtain a layered double hydroxide-Al2 O3 -polymer mixed-matrix disk with excellent flow-through properties. The extraction performance of the prepared disks is evaluated as a proof of concept for the automated extraction using sequential injection analysis of organic acids (p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid) following an anion-exchange mechanism. After the solid-phase extraction, phenolic acids were quantified by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with diode-array detection using a core-shell silica-C18 stationary phase and isocratic elution (acetonitrile/0.5% acetic acid in pure water, 5:95, v/v). High sensitivity and reproducibility were obtained with limits of detection in the range of 0.12-0.25 μg/L (sample volume, 4 mL), and relative standard deviations between 2.9 and 3.4% (10 μg/L, n = 6). Enrichment factors of 34-39 were obtained. Layered double hydroxide-Al2 O3 -polymer mixed-matrix disks had an average lifetime of 50 extractions. Analyte recoveries ranged from 93 to 96% for grape juice and nonalcoholic beer samples.
Human exposure to p-hydroxybenzoic acid esters (parabens) is a concern, owing to adverse health effects of these compounds. Parabens are metabolized and eliminated from the human bodies within a few hours of exposure. In this study, for the first time, methyl- and ethyl-protocatechuates (OH-MeP and OH-EtP) and their parent compounds, methyl- (MeP) and ethyl-parabens (EtP), were determined in urine samples collected from U.S. children and adults. Alkyl protocatechuates were found in almost all urine samples, with median concentrations of 11.8 (OH-MeP) and 2.90ng/mL (OH-EtP) in adults, and 5.43 (OH-MeP) and 0.85ng/mL (OH-EtP) in children. In adults, the concentrations of urinary OH-MeP and OH-EtP were higher than the corresponding concentrations of MeP and EtP. Significant correlation between OH-MeP/OH-EtP and MeP/EtP was observed. This is the first report to document hydroxylation of parabens in humans, and to propose hydroxylated metabolites (i.e., alkyl protocatechuates) as alternative biomarkers of exposure to parabens in human biomonitoring studies. The rates of transformation of parabens between children and adults appeared to be different, as evidenced from the slopes of regression between alkyl protocatechuates and parabens. In addition to alkyl protocatechuates, hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB) were found at considerable levels in the urine samples. The occurrence of a significant proportion of alkyl protocatechuates and 3,4-DHB suggests the need for inclusion of these derivatives in accurate estimation of human exposure to parabens and in epidemiological studies that associate paraben exposure to health outcomes in populations.
Recently, iron acquisition and, more specifically, enzymes involved in siderophore biosynthesis have become attractive targets for discovery of new antibiotics. Accordingly, targeted inhibition of the biosynthesis of petrobactin, a virulence-associated siderophore encoded by the asb locus in Bacillus anthracis, may hold promise as a potential therapy against anthrax. This study describes the biochemical characterization of AsbC, the first reported 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid-AMP ligase, and a key component in the biosynthesis of DHB-spermidine (DHB-SP), the first isolable intermediate in petrobactin biosynthesis. AsbC catalyzes adenylation to the corresponding AMP ester of the unusual precursor 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate, in addition to benzoate substrates bearing hydrogen bond-donating substituents at the para and meta positions on the phenyl ring. In a second reaction, AsbC catalyzes transfer of the activated starter unit to AsbD, an aryl carrier protein similar to acyl and peptidyl carrier proteins that function in fatty acid, polyketide, and nonribosomal peptide biosynthesis. A third protein, AsbE, is shown to be responsible for condensation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoyl-AsbD with spermidine, providing the DHB-spermidine arms that are linked to citrate for assembly of petrobactin. On the basis of the selective substrate profile of AsbC, a nonhydrolyzable analogue of 3,4-DHB-AMP was synthesized and shown to effectively inhibit AsbC function in vitro.
Phthalate isomers and their esters are used heavily in various industries. Excess use and leaching from the product pose them as major pollutants. These chemicals are toxic, teratogenic, mutagenic and carcinogenic in nature. Various aspects like toxicity, diversity in the aerobic bacterial degradation, enzymes and genetic organization of the metabolic pathways from various bacterial strains are reviewed here. Degradation of these esters proceeds by the action of esterases to form phthalate isomers, which are converted to dihydroxylated intermediates by specific and inducible phthalate isomer dioxygenases. Metabolic pathways of phthalate isomers converge at 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, which undergoes either ortho- or meta- ring cleavage and subsequently metabolized to the central carbon pathway intermediates. The genes involved in the degradation are arranged in operons present either on plasmid or chromosome or both, and induced by specific phthalate isomer. Understanding metabolic pathways, diversity and their genetic regulation may help in constructing bacterial strains through genetic engineering approach for effective bioremediation and environmental clean up.
The plants of Coniferae are rich resources that have been found to be of important medicinal value in recent years. The medicinal importance of pine needles prompted us to carry out phytochemical investigations on it [1]. In the past work, we isolated a variety of active compounds from the needles of Cedrus deodara (Roxb.) Loud [2]. In the present work, four small subclasses of acidic compounds have been isolated from the needles of Cedrus deodara (Roxb.) Loud; these were shikimic acid (1), vanillic acid (2), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), and p-hydroxybenzoic acid (4). Shikimic acid (1) is an important intermediate in the biosynthesis of aromatic amino acids in plants and microorganisms [3–6], which is the starting compound utilized for the manufacture of the drug Oseltamivir [3]. Although most autotrophic organisms produce shikimic acid, the isolation yield is low [7]. Shikimic acid is mostly obtained from the fruits of star anise [8]. Only one Chinese paper reported the determination of shikimic acid in the fruit of Illiciaceae plants by LC with diode-array detection [9]. Mardones et al. reported in 2005 [10] a CZE method for determination of shikimic acid in red wines. Garcia Romero et al. [11] described the LC method for the determination of organic acids in grape musts and vinegars. Fang et al. [12] characterized the phenolic constituents in dried plums by LC-MS/MS, and Bylund et al. [13] analyzed the organic acids in natural waters by tandem mass spectrometry. In the present work, we developed a simple and highly precise RP-HPLC method for the analysis of the bioactive molecules of shikimic acid in seven different conifers, viz. Cedrus deodara (Roxb.) Loud, Platycladus orientalis (Linn.) Franco, Pinus massoniana Lamb., Picea crassifolia Kom., Pinus tabulaeformis Carr., Juniperus chensis L., and Sabinacentrasiatica Kom. The method can also be used for quality control and standardization of the species and to identify the species used in a formulation. Pine leaves and branches of seven different conifers were obtained from Gansu Province in northwest China. The samples were identified by Prof. Fujiang He (Gansu Academy of Medical Science, Lanzhou, China). The specimens were authenticated and a voucher specimen of each (YKY0915) was deposited in the Herbarium. The pine needles of Cedrus deodara (3.5 kg) were extracted with 95% ethanol (10 times volume) twice to afford the ethanol extract (390 g), which was suspended in water and extracted with petroleum ether, ethyl acetate, and n-butanol, separately. The n-butanol extract (130 g) was chromatographed over Diaion HP-20 with H2O containing increasing amounts of MeOH. The 20% MeOH eluate (3.4 g) was chromatographed on Toyopearl HW-40 (coarse grade) developing with 20% MeOH 50% MeOH. The 20% MeOH eluate (1.5 g) was rechromatographed on silica gel to yield compound 1 (46 mg), compound 2 (11 mg), compound 3 (16 mg), and compound 4 (13 mg). Samples of air-dried (45–55 C) powdered pine leaves from the seven different conifer species (1.0 g) were sonicated in 100 mL of water for 20 min followed by centrifugation for 15 min at 3500 rpm. The clear supernatant solution was transferred to a 100 mL volumetric flask. The procedure was repeated thrice and the respective supernatants combined. The final volume was adjusted to 100 mL with water and mixed thoroughly. Quantitative analysis of shikimic acid by HPLC with UV detection showed that the amounts of shikimic acid were largest in Cedrus deodara (Roxb.) Loud. The mobile phase was methanol containing aqueous phosphoric acid (pH 3); the amount of the latter component was 90%. The flow rate was 1.0 mL·min–1. The results are summarized in Table 1.
Cactaceae Nopalea cochenillifera cell cultures and intact plants (cladodes) transform various toxic textile dyes, including Red HE7B into less phytotoxic, non-hazardous metabolites. The [tentative] pathway analysis demonstrates that Red HE7B is transformed into 3-amino-5-imino-5,8-dihydronaphthalen-2-ol, 2-amino-6-(carboxycarbonyl)-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-aminophenol, and phenol. The significant induction of the activities of intracellular laccase (687%), tyrosinase (219%), azoreductase (144%), and 2,6-dichlorophenol-indophenol reductase (167%) indicated the involvement of these enzymes in the transformation pathways of Red HE7B but these enzymes have not been definitively linked to the phytotransformation of this toxic dye. The present foundation work could add another plant candidate for phytoremediation of undesirable products from industry wastes and harmful chemicals.
Experimental work demonstrates that polyhalogenated alkanes (PHAs) are rapidly reduced in aqueous solutions containing Fe(II) complexes with organic ligands that possess either catechol or organothiol Lewis base groups in their structure and are representative of extracellular ligands and metal-complexing moieties within humic substances (tiron, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, thioglycolic acid, and 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid). In solutions containing Fe(II)-tiron complexes, 1,1,1-trichloroethane (1,1,1-TCA) is reduced quantitativelyto acetaldehyde, a product previously reported for reactions with Cr(II), but not with Fe-based reductants. Observed pseudo-first-order rate constants for 1,1,1-TCA reduction by Fe(II)-organic complexes (k'(obs)) generally increase with increasing pH and ligand concentration when Fe(II) concentration is fixed. For the Fe(II)-tiron system, k'(obs) is linearly correlated with the concentration of the 1:2 Fe(II)-tiron complex (FeL2(6-)), and kinetic trends can be described by k'(obs) = k(FeL2)6- [FeL2(6-)], where k(FeL2)6- is the bimolecular rate constant for PHA reaction with the 1:2 Fe(II)-tiron complex. Comparing reaction rates for 14 polyhalogenated ethanes and methanes reveals linear free energy relationships (LFERs) with molecular descriptors for PHA reduction (D(R-X'), deltaG(0'), and E(LUMO)), with the strongest correlation being obtained using carbon-halogen bond dissociation energies, D(R-X'). The collective experimental results are consistent with a dissociative one-electron transfer process occurring during the rate-limiting step.
Quercetin glucosides ingested as components of a foodstuff can be transformed to quercetin, and the quercetin is oxidized by peroxidase in the oral cavity. One objective of this study was the characterization of the oxidation products. Although both salivary peroxidase and myeloperoxidase are contained in whole saliva, salivary peroxidase is mainly involved in the oxidation in the saliva. As the oxidation products, 2,3,5,7,3′,4′-hexahydroxyflavanone-like compound and two isomers of a compound, which was transformed to quercetin and the above flavanone by a HCl/heat-treatment, were isolated. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenylglyoxylic acid were also detected in the oxidation products. When dialyzed saliva was used, the salivary peroxidase-dependent oxidation of quercetin and the formation of the oxidation products were partly inhibited by 1 mM thiocyanate which was a substrate for the peroxidase in the oral cavity. The mechanism and the significance of salivary peroxidase-dependent oxidation of quercetin in the oral cavity are discussed.
In this paper a new method for the determination of Total Antioxidant Potential (TAP) using mass spectrometry has been described. The method is based on the generation of hydroxyl radicals in Fenton reaction and analysis of the product of their interaction with p-hydroxybenzoic acid - 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. It has been found that the proposed assay is superior to the previously described chromatographic method with respect to analysis time. The method has been applied to the determination of TAP for some herbal extracts and melatonin.
Abstract Phthalate isomers and their esters are used heavily in various industries. Excess use and leaching from the product pose them as major pollutants. These chemicals are toxic, teratogenic, mutagenic and carcinogenic in nature. Various aspects like toxicity, diversity in the aerobic bacterial degradation, enzymes and genetic organization of the metabolic pathways from various bacterial strains are reviewed here. Degradation of these esters proceeds by the action of esterases to form phthalate isomers, which are converted to dihydroxylated intermediates by specifi c and inducible phthalate isomer dioxygenases. Metabolic pathways of phthalate isomers converge at 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, which undergoes either ortho-or meta-ring cleavage and subsequently metabolized to the central carbon pathway intermediates. The genes involved in the degradation are arranged in operons present either on plasmid or chromosome or both, and induced by specifi c phthalate isomer. Understanding metabolic pathways, diversity and their genetic regulation may help in constructing bacterial strains through genetic engineering approach for effective bioremediation and environmental clean up.
From a mechanistic point of view, the catalytic cycle of COMT is well understood. Lotta et al. [4] performed a kinetic study of the methylation reaction of dopamine, (2)-noradrenaline, L-dopa, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid catalyzed by SAM. They showed that, in order for all components to bind in a reactive orientation and for the reaction to occur, the reaction needs to proceed through an ordered sequential mechanism: In the first step, SAM binds the protein and forms a stable complex. Tsao et al. [7] also showed that in the absence of metal and substrate SAM adopts a different docking pose in comparison to the holoenzyme. In the second step, the protein binds a divalent metal cation through coordination to several acidic residues, and without direct interaction between the metal and SAM. In the last step, the catechol-containing substrate coordinates to the metal and establishes a network of hydrogen bonds with the residues at the active site [4] . In this conformation of the complex, the methyl group attached to the S atom in SAM points toward the hydroxyl group of the substrate, ready for transfer. This arrangement was confirmed when the crystal structures of rat (1994) and human (2008) COMT bound with SAM, Mg(II) and a substrate analog, 3,5-dinitrocatechol, were crystallized [5] . By using isotopic labeling of the methyl group (deuterium and carbon-13), Hegazi et al. were able to demonstrate that the methyl transfer is the ratedetermining step in catalysis, with an S N 2-like transition state (TS) in which the methyl group is located symmetrically and ''tightly'' between the leaving group and nucleophile [8] .
Quercetin glucosides ingested as components of a foodstuff can be transformed to quercetin, and the quercetin is oxidized by peroxidase in the oral cavity. One objective of this study was the characterization of the oxidation products. Although both salivary peroxidase and myeloperoxidase are contained in whole saliva, salivary peroxidase is mainly involved in the oxidation in the saliva. As the oxidation products, 2,3,5,7,3¢ ¢ ¢ ¢,4¢ ¢ ¢ ¢-hexahydroxyflavanone-like compound and two isomers of a compound, which was transformed to quercetin and the above flavanone by a HCl/heattreatment, were isolated. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenylglyoxylic acid were also detected in the oxidation products. When dialyzed saliva was used, the salivary peroxidase-dependent oxidation of quercetin and the formation of the oxidation products were partly inhibited by 1 mM thiocyanate which was a substrate for the peroxidase in the oral cavity. The mechanism and the significance of salivary peroxidase-dependent oxidation of quercetin in the oral cavity are discussed.
The 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, protocatechuic acid (PCA), is a phenolic acid found in fruit, vegetables, and extra virgin olive oil but also in plant-derived beverages such as tea and red and white grape wine and in herbal medicine [10] [11] [12] . The PCA content varies considerably depending on the type of food; for example, raspberries contain up to 100 mg/kg fresh weight of PCA, while in extra virgin olive oil its concentration is about 0.22 mg/kg [13, 14] .
Abstract Phenolic acids are added to some dairy products as functional ingredients. The molecular interactions between the phenolic acids and milk proteins impacts their functional performance and product quality. In this study, the interactions between a milk protein (β-casein) and a number of phenolic acids was investigated: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DA); gallic acid (GA); syringic acid (SA); caffeic acid (CaA); ferulic acid (FA); and, chlorogenic acid (ChA). The structural characteristics of the phenolic acids, such as type, hydroxylation, methylation, and steric hindrance, affected their binding affinity to β-casein. The strength of the binding constant decreased in the following order: CaA>ChA>FA>SA>GA>DA. Cinnamic acid derivatives (CaA, FA, and ChA) exhibited a stronger binding affinity with β-casein than benzoic acid derivatives (DA, GA, and SA). Hydrophobic forces and electrostatic interactions dominated the interactions of β-casein with benzoic acid and cinnamic acid derivatives, respectively. The number of hydroxyl groups on the phenolic acids enhanced their binding ability, while steric hindrance effects reduced their binding ability. The influence of methylation depended on phenolic acid type. After binding with phenolic acids, the conformation of the β-casein changed, with a loss of random coil structure, an increase in α-helix structure, and a decrease in surface hydrophobicity. Furthermore, the presence of β-casein decreased the in vitro antioxidant capacities of the phenolic acids, especially for gallic acid. These findings provide some useful insights into the structure–activity relationships of the interaction between β-casein and phenolic acids.
2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid has been shown to be oxidized via the 3-oxoadipate pathway in the leaves of Tecoma stans. The formation of 2-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid, a muconolactone, 3-oxoadipic acid and carbon dioxide during its metabolism has been demonstrated using an extract of Tecoma leaves. The first reaction of the pathway, viz., the conversion of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate to 2-carboxy-cis,cis-muconic acid has been shown to be catalysed by an enzyme designated as 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate 2,3-oxygenase. The enzyme has been partially purified and a few of its properties studied. The enzyme is very labile with a half-life of 3--4 h. It is maximally active with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate as the substrate and does not exhibit any activity with catechol, 4-methyl catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, etc. However, 2,3-dihydroxy-p-toluate and 2,3-dihydroxy-p-cumate are also oxidized by the enzyme by about 38% and 28% respectively, compared to 2,3-dihydroxybenzoate. Sulfhydryl reagents inhibit the enzyme reaction and the inhibition can be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with the substrate. Substrate also affords protection to the enzyme against thermal inactivation. Sulfhydryl compounds strongly inhibit the reaction and the inhibition cannot be prevented by preincubation of the enzyme with its substrates. Data on the effect of metal ions as well as metal chelating agents suggest that copper is the metal cofactor of the enzyme. Evidence is presented which suggests that iron may not be participating in the overall catalytic mechanism.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of Hedyotis diffusa Willd.Methods Compounds were isolated by column chromatography of silica,and the structures were determined by spectral analysis.Results Six compounds were isolated and elucidated as lupenyl acetate(1);caffeic acid(2);3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3);5-hydroxy-6,7,3′,4′-tetramethoxy flavone(4);quercetin(5);kaempferol(6).Conclusion Compounds 1-4 are isolated from this plant for the first time.
Abstract 1. 1. Aerobacter aerogenes NCW (wild-type strain) was grown on quinic acid in either iron-sufficient or iron-deficient media. Catechol, 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, p-hydrobenzoic acid and anthranilic acid accumulated in iron-deficient medium whereas only the latter two acids where found in iron-sufficient medium. 2. 2. A. aerogenes N5-36 (a mutant blocked after the synthesis of anthranilic acid) when grown on quinic acid accumulated catechol, 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, p-hydrobenzoic acid, anthranilic acid and an N-acylanthranilic acid. This latter compoun which was not the N-formyl derivative had similar characteristics to N-acetylanthranillic acid. 3. 3. A washed suspension of cells of the mutant grown either on glucose or quinic acid also produced this N-acylanthranilic acid together with anthranilic acid when incubated with shikimic acid. 4. 4. The possibilities of this N-acyl derivative being either a precursor or a metabolite of anthranilic acid are discussed.
Abstract A key step in the biosynthesis of the fungal meroterpenoids boviquinone-3 and -4 is the prenylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. In fruit-bodies of Suillus bovinus boviquinone-4 is formed by geranylgeranylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid at C-5, whereas in Chroogomphus rutilus the farnesyl side chain of boviquinone-3 is introduced at C-2. The biosynthesis of the terpenoid chain of boviquinone-4 follows the mevalonate route.
Analysis of stem extracts identified large quantities of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and other similar phenolics. The exogenous application of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid on Protea cynaroides explants in vitro significantly increased the root mass at 100 mg l−1, but not at lower concentrations, while root inhibition was observed at 500 mg l−1. HPLC analysis of cuttings during vegetative propagation showed a considerable increase in 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels from initial planting to when root formation took place, indicating for the first time that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid may be an important phenolic compound in regulating root formation in P. cynaroides cuttings. HPLC analysis also identified caffeic, ferulic, gallic and salicylic acids in the cuttings.
The biochemical characteristics of soluble catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in rat erythrocytes were compared with the properties of the soluble enzyme in rat liver, heart, and brain. COMT was measured by a procedure that avoided artifacts of some other assay procedures including inhibition of the enzyme by endogenous calcium. After the removal of calcium from the reaction mixture the apparent Michaelis-Menten constants for the two cosubstrates of the COMT reaction, S-adenosyl-1-methionine (SAM) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA), were similar in tissue preparations of rat liver, brain, heart and blood. The apparent Km values for the four tissues ranged from 5.7 to 6.7 x 10(-6) M and from 0.9-1.4 x 10(-4) M for SAM and DBA, respectively. The optimal pH and the optimal concentration of magnesium for the assay of red blood cell COMT were also similar to those for the enzyme in the three other rat tissues. After the removal of endogenous calcium, COMT activity in all four tissues was inhibited by the addition of calcium, and the [CaCl2] necessary to inhibit the enzyme activity 50% was 3-5 x 10(-4) M in all cases. The relative activities of COMT in the rat heart, brain, erythrocyte, and liver when expressed per g tissue or per ml of packed red blood cells were 1 to 1.15 to 1.58 to 140, respectively.
The involvement of O-sulphate esters in the directed O-methylation was investigated in vitro with a dialysed "high-speed' supernatant from rat liver as the enzyme preparation and the catechol compound 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the substrate. The enzyme reactions involved were studied separately with the O-methylated and O-sulphated derivatives. The rate of hydrolysis by arylsulphatase was 14.5 nmol/min per mg of protein for 3-methoxy-4-sulphonyloxybenzoic acid and 10.1 nmol/min per mg of protein for 4-methoxy-3-sulphonyloxybenzoic acid. The sulphotransferase activity towards the guaiacols 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid and 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid was 570pmol of 4-O-sulphated and 350pmol of 3-O-sulphated product formed/min per mg of protein. The 3-O- and 4-O-sulphate esters of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid could not serve as substrates for the catechol O-methyltransferase reaction. When either ester was incubated in the presence of S-adenosyl-L-methionine, but without the arylsulphatase inhibitor KH2PO4, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was formed, which was subsequently O-methylated in a meta/para ratio of 4.6. It is concluded that O-methylation can precede O-sulphation but that O-sulphation prevents further metabolism by O-methylation. Also O-sulphate esters do not have a directing effect on O-methylation. From the study of the simultaneous action of sulphotransferase and catechol O-methyltransferase on 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid we conclude that O-sulphation and O-methylation proceed independently of each other under the assay conditions used, both directed preferentially to the 3-hydroxy group.
Parabens are widely used as antimicrobial and preservatives in pharmaceutical and personal care products and are continuously reaching the water streams. Conventional wastewater treatments are proven inefficient on the removal of this kind of contaminants from wastewater. Therefore, catalytic ozonation appears as a suitable option, due to the oxidant power of ozone and its high capacity of hydroxyl radical generation in the presence of a suitable catalyst. The main drawback of catalytic ozonation is related with the choice of stable and active catalysts at low cost. On this way, two volcanic rocks were tested to enhance the removal of a mixture of parabens by ozonation, improving their degradation. Indeed, catalytic ozonation with volcanic rock allowed total paraben degradation using a transferred ozone dose (TOD) of 55 mg/L which corresponds to a reduction of about threefold the amount of TOD comparatively with single ozonation (170 mg/L of TOD). Due to the presence of semiconductors on volcanic rock composition, the effect of UVA irradiation on paraben degradation was analyzed. The neutral and basic conditions enhanced catalytic ozonation comparatively to acid conditions. Higher pH values allowed a total methylparaben degradation with 35 mg O3/L, whereas for low pH values, 55 mg O3/L was required. The use of a radical scavenger proven that hydroxyl radicals are the main responsible for paraben degradation with catalytic ozonation. This was confirmed through the analysis of the by-products, where 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-diHBA), 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and hydroquinone were quantified.
The methanol extracts of Aralia elata bark showed antimicrobial activities against bacteria, yeast, fungi. The solvent fractionated acidic fraction that showed the activity was then successively purified with silica gel adsorption column chromatography, Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography, silica gel partition column chromatography, HPLC and TLC. The isolated major active substance was identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid by MS, GC-MS, IR, . The content of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was 0.869㎎/g in dried bark of Aralia elata.
BACKGROUND ::: In addition to generating free radicals, stress-induced activation of the sympathetic nervous system results in hyperphosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2)/calcium (Ca2+) release channel on the sarcoplasmic reticulum, causing leaky channels. These events may contribute to cytosolic Ca2+ overload and activation of Ca2+-dependent cytotoxic processes. Because myocardial dysfunction associated with intracranial hypertension is catecholamine mediated, we sought to determine in a rat model if hemodynamic changes are associated with an increase in oxidative stress, hyperphosphorylation of RyR2, and degradation of myofilament protein cardiac troponin I (TnI). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: In halothane-anesthetized rats treated with saline, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), or the synthetic calpain inhibitor calpeptin (3,500 microg), a subdural balloon catheter was inflated to induce intracranial hypertension. Hearts were excised, and RyR2 phosphorylation status and TnI degradation was determined with Western blot analysis. In separate experiments, treated rats were challenged with increasing doses of dobutamine 30 minutes after subdural balloon inflation. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Elevating the intracranial pressure resulted in an increase in plasma catecholamines, as well as in 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), an indirect marker of HO. radical production, and left ventricular dysfunction in rats treated with saline or DMSO. There was evidence of hyperphosphorylation of RyR2 and TnI degradation (27 kD immunoreactive band). Calpeptin treatment improved left ventricular function; however, this had no effect on the phosphorylation status of RyR2 or TnI degradation levels. In addition, the myocardial responsiveness to dobutamine was augmented in rats with depressed myocardial function. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The present findings demonstrate that hemodynamic instability after intracranial hypertension is associated with oxidative stress and post-translational changes to RyR2 and TnI degradation. Despite this, the myocardial responsiveness to beta1 adrenergic stimulation is preserved in rats with depressed myocardial function.
The effects of cultivar, grape maturation and technology of winemaking on the levels of phenolic acids were evaluated. In all varieties, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic, p-coumaric and caffeic acids were the predominant acids. Among the three varieties, significant differences were observed in the concentration of p-coumaric acid. The grape maturation only influenced the concentration of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. According to the technology of winemaking, significant differences could be observed in syringic, and p-coumaric acids by the induction of fermentation temperature. Comparisons of the phenolic composition, when the fermentations were conducted in stainless steel tanks and/or in oak barrels, showed differences in the concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic, ellagic and caffeic acids.
Anisomeles indica (L.) kuntze is widely used in folk medicine against various disorders including allergy, sores, inflammation, and fever. This research investigated the antinociceptive, anxiolytic and sedative effects of A. indica methanol extract. The antinociceptive activity was assessed with the acetic acid-induced writhing test and formalin-induced flicking test while sedative effects with open field and hole cross tests and anxiolytic effects with elevated plus maze (EPM) and thiopental-induced sleeping time tests were assayed. Computer aided (pass prediction, docking) analyses were undertaken to find out the best-fit phytoconstituent of total fourteen isolated compounds of this plant for aforesaid effects. Acetic acid treated mice taking different concentrations of extract (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) displayed reduced the writhing number. In the formalin-induced test, extract minimized the paw licking time of mice during the first phase and the second phase significantly. The open field and hole-cross tests were noticed with a dose-dependent reduction of locomotor activity. The EPM test demonstrated an increase of time spent percentage in open arms. Methanol extract potentiated the effect of thiopental-induced hypnosis in lesser extent comparing with Diazepam. The results may account for the use of Anisomeles indica as an alternative treatment of antinociception and neuropharmacological abnormalities with further intensive studies. The compound, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was found to be most effective in computer aided models.
Abstract Analysis of stem extracts identified large quantities of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and other similar phenolics. The exogenous application of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid on Protea cynaroides explants in vitro significantly increased the root mass at 100 mg l À1 , but not at lower concentrations, while root inhibition was observed at 500 mg l À1 . HPLC analysis of cuttings during vegetative propagation showed a considerable increase in 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels from initial planting to when root formation took place, indicating for the first time that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid may be an important phenolic compound in regulating root formation in P. cynaroides cuttings. HPLC analysis also identified caffeic, ferulic, gallic and salicylic acids in the cuttings.
The involvement of 0-sulphate esters in the directed 0-methylation was investigated in vitro with a dialysed 'high-speed' supernatant from rat liver as the enzyme preparation and the catechol compound 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the substrate. The enzyme reactions involved were studied separately with the 0-methylated and O-sulphated derivatives. The rate of hydrolysis by arylsulphatase was 14.5 nmol/min per mg of protein for 3-methoxy-4-sulphonyloxybenzoic acid and 10.1 nmol/min per mg of protein for 4-methoxy-3-sulphonyloxybenzoic acid. The sulphotransferase activity towards the guaiacols 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid and 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid was 570pmol of 4-0-sulphated and 350pmol of 3-O-sulphated product formed/min per mg of protein. The 3-0-and 4-0-sulphate esters of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid could not serve as substrates for the catechol 0-methyltransferase reaction. When either ester was incubated in the presence of S-adenosyl-L-methionine, but without the arylsulphatase inhibitor KH2PO4, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was formed, which was subsequently 0-methylated in a meta/para ratio of 4.6. It is concluded that 0-methylation can precede O-sulphation but that O-sulphation prevents further metabolism by 0-methylation. Also 0-sulphate esters do not have a directing effect on 0-methylation. From the study of the simultaneous action of sulphotransferase and catechol 0-methyltransferase on 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid we conclude that O-sulphation and 0-methylation proceed independently of each other under the assay conditions used, both directed preferentially to the 3-hydroxy group.
Six compounds were isolated from the leaves of Syringa oblata Lindl. and identified as D-mannitol (Ⅰ), tyrosol (Ⅱ), E-p-hydroxycinnamic acid (Ⅲ), 3, 4-dihydroxyphenethyl alcohol (Ⅳ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Ⅴ) and syringopicroside (Ⅵ) on the basis of their analytical and spectral data. Bacteriostatic experiments showed that compounds (Ⅱ), (Ⅲ), (Ⅳ), Ⅴ and the aglucon of (Ⅵ) were all bacteriostatic. Compound (Ⅳ) was highly, effective, and its minimum bacteriostatic concentration against Shigella flexneri was 6.25 γ/ml. Pharmacological experiments showed that compound (Ⅵ) was highly cholecystagogic.
One new neolignan glucoside (1) and one new biphenyl ether lignan (2) along with seven known compounds, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, rosmarinic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, benzoic acid, 5-acetoxymethyl-2-furaldehyde, vanillic acid, and 5,5′-oxybis(5-methylene-2-furaldehyde), were isolated from the fruits of Cordia latifolia. The structures of 1 and 2 were elucidated as 9′-hydroxy-3,5′-dimethoxy-4′,9-epoxy-8,3′-neolign-7′-(E)-ene-4-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (1) and (1-p-hydroxy-cis-cinnamoyl)cinnamic acid (2) by 1D and 2D NMR and HR-ESI-MS.
The isolation and identification of twenty-two components (including one new compound) from the whole herb of Clinoponium laxiflorum (Hay) Matsum (Labiatae) are described. Their structures were determined on the basis of spectral and chemical transformation. One new compound is methyl rosmarinate. The other twenty-one compounds include three steroids (α-spinasterol, α-spinasteryl-3-O-β-D-glucopyranoside, and β-sitosteryl-3-O-β-glucopyranoside), three triterpenes (oleanolic acid, ursolic acid, and betulinic acid), nine flavonoids (didymin, apigenin-7-O-β-glucopyranoside, luteolin-7-O-β-glucopyranoside, isosakuranetin, narigenin, apigenin, luteolin, narirutin, and hesperidin), three lignolic acids (rosmarinic acid, 3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)lactic acid, and caffeic acid), and three phenols (4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid).
The biotransformation of intramuscularly administered 14C-labeled trans-stilbene was investigated in both rabbits and rats. In rabbits radioactivity was excreted (78.8% in 17 days) almost exclusively in the urine. In rats, feces accounted for more than half of the total excretion (80.3% in 19 days). Hydroxylated metabolites in urine and feces were identified by thin-layer chromatography and quantitated by liquid scintillation counting. They were 4-hydroxy and 4,49-dihydroxystilbene, and the two monomethyl ethers of 3,4-dihydroxystilbene and 4,49-dihydroxybibenzyl. In addition, four polyhydroxylated metabolites of stilbene and bibenzyl were identified in rat urine by comparison of gas-liquid chromatography retention times of their silyl derivatives with synthetic reference compounds. They were 3,4,49-trihydroxystilbene, and 3,4-dihydroxy-, 3,4,49=trihydroxy-, and 3,4,39,49-tetrahydroxybibenzyl. Oxidative cleavage of trans-stilbene to benzoic acid and 4-hydroxy- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was established by the presence of both the free acids and conjugates of these compounds in both rabbit and rat urine. Their glycine conjugates were identified by thin-layer chromatography and quantitated by reverse isotope dilution procedures from unhydrolyzed rabbit and rat urine. Percentages obtained indicate that cleavage of trans-stilbene is more extensive in rabbits (9.5%) than in rats (2.7%).
The enzymic meta and para O-sulphation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was investigated in vitro with a dialysed high-speed supernatant from rat liver. The O-sulphated products were identified by comparison with the reference compounds. The chemical synthesis and identification of the reference O-sulphate esters is described in detail. The sulphotransferase activity of the dialysed supernatant from rat liver towards 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was 580 pmol of 3-O-sulphate and 120 pmol of 4-O-sulphate formed/min per mg of protein at the optimal pH of 7.4. The meta/para ratio of O-sulphation was independent of pH, time of incubation, concentration of enzyme and presence of dithiothreitol. The O-sulphate esters of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were found to be good substrates for the arylsulphatase reaction at pH 5.6. The arylsulphatase activity of a dialysed preparation from rat liver was 4.0 nmol of 3-O- and 5.7 nmol of 4-O-sulphate ester hydrolysed/min per mg of protein, respectively. Arylsulphatase from Helix pomatia had an activity of 620 pmol of 3-O-sulphate and of 16.6 nmol of 4-O-sulphate ester hydrolysed/min per unit (mumol/h) of sulphatase.
Six compounds were isolated from the leaves of Syringa oblat (?)indl.They were identified as D-manitol(Ⅰ),tyrosol(Ⅱ),E—P— hydroxycinnamic acid(Ⅲ),3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl alcohol(Ⅳ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅴ),and syringopicroside(Ⅵ)on the basis of their analytical and spectroscopic data.Bacteriostatic expe- riments showed that compounds(Ⅱ),(Ⅳ)and the aglucone of(Ⅳ) were all bacteriostatics.Compound(Ⅳ)was highly effective and its minimum bacteriostatic concentration against Shigella flexneri was 6.25r/ml.Pharmacological experiments showed that compound(Ⅵ)was highly cholecystagogic.
Reagents Quercetin and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were obtained from Wako Pure Chem. Ind. (Osaka). Superoxide dismutase (SOD) from bovine erythrocytes, myeloperoxidase from human leukocytes, horseradish peroxidase and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) were from Sigma-Aldrich Japan (Tokyo).
Verproside is a biologically active iridoid glycoside component of Pseudolysimachion rotundum var. subintegrum, Pseudolysimachionspurium, Pseudolysimachion longifolium, Veronica anagallis-aquatica, and Veronica ciliata [1] [2] [3] [4] . Verproside exhibits anti-inflammatory [5] [6] [7] , antioxidant [8] , anti-nociceptive [6] , anti-hepatocarcinoma [9] , and anti-asthmatic activities. Verproside may be a good therapeutic candidate as an anti-asthma drug, blocking the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway and reducing the levels of total immunoglobulin E, interleukin-4, and interleukin-13 [10, 11] . There are a few reports on the pharmacokinetics and metabolism of verproside in rats [12, 13] , but the mechanisms underlying the in vitro and in vivo metabolism of verproside in animals and humans have not been reported. Verproside showed a short half-life (12.2-16.6 min), high systemic clearance (56.7-86.2 mL/min/kg), and low renal clearance (2.7-4.1 mL/min/kg) after intravenous injection (dose range 2-10 mg/kg) and very low bioavailability (<0.5%) after oral administration (dose range 20-100 mg/kg) in male Sprague Dawley rats, indicating the extensive metabolism of verproside [12] . In rats, verproside is metabolized into verproside glucuronides (M1, M2), verproside sulfates (M3, M4), picroside II (M5), M5 glucuronide (M7), M5 sulfate (M9), isovanilloylcatalpol (M6), M6 glucuronide (M8), M6 sulfate (M10), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (M11), M11 glucuronide (M12), M11 sulfates (M13, M14), 3-methyoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (M15), M15 glucuronides (M17, M18), M15 sulfate (M20), 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid (M16), M16 glucuronide (M19), and M16 sulfate (M21) via O-methylation, glucuronidation, sulfation, and hydrolysis. In total, 13 metabolites, M1-M11, M13, and M14, were identified in rat hepatocytes, and verproside sulfate (M4) was a major metabolite [13] .
The methanol extract of Gardenia jasminoides Ellis showed antimicrobial activity against bacteria and yeasts. The extract was successively purified with solvent fractionation, silica gel adsorption column chromatography, Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography, octadecylsilane column chromatography. The purified active substance was isolated by high performance liquid chromatography. The isolated compound was 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid which was determined by mass spectrometer, gas chromatograph-mass spectrometer, magnetic resonance, magnetic resonance and two-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance. The content of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was in dried fruits of Gardenia jasminoides Ellis.
Abstract In this work, the solar light-induced photocatalytic degradation of ethyl paraben (EP) was studied using CuOx/BiVO4 with 0.75 wt.% copper loading, a relatively new photocatalyst that can exploit a large portion of the solar spectrum. The synthesized catalyst had a primary crystallite size of ca 37 nm, a specific surface area of 1 m2/g and a direct bandgap of 2.3 eV. A factorial design methodology was implemented to evaluate the importance of EP concentration (500–1500 μg/L), catalyst concentration (100–500 mg/L), reaction time (10–60 min), the presence of radical scavengers (pure water or 500 mg/L bicarbonates) and initial solution pH (3–9) on EP removal. All individual effects were statistically significant and so was the second-order interaction of EP concentration with reaction time. Interestingly and differently from the majority of photocatalytic studies, the presence of bicarbonates promotes the photocatalytic degradation of ethyl paraben. The photocatalytic activity drops from 98% to 79% after five consecutive runs, possibly due to accumulation of oxidation by-products. Liquid chromatography-time of flight mass spectrometry (LC-TOF-MS) revealed that EP degradation occurs mainly via dealkylation followed by hydroxylation reactions and the formation of methyl paraben, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as primary transformation by-products.
Bifunctional carbon dots have shown a large amount of potential in bioimaging and antioxidation applications. However, the hydrothermal method for the preparation of bifunctional carbon dots requires a high energy input and an expensive setup. Moreover, this method breaks down sensitive compounds in the raw materials and could decrease the antioxidation ability of the resulting carbon dots. Here, phenolic extracts of coffee bean shells were used to prepare carbon dots via a cheap, energy-saving, mild molecular aggregation method. The as-prepared carbon dots were characterized by TEM, HPLC, XPS and Raman spectroscopy. The carbon dots had a diameter ranging from 1 to 5 nm and mainly contained three kinds of phenolic compounds including 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The carbon dots demonstrated a strong antioxidation capacity, which was comparable to the commercially available butylated hydroxytoluene. The EC50 of the carbon dots was 110 μg mL−1. The carbon dots had a pH-/excitation-dependent fluorescence. The as-prepared carbon dots also showed anti-bleaching fluorescence, which was better than that of the commercially available 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. Based on this finding, the excellent biocompatibility of carbon dots enabled them to be successfully used for banana storage and imaging both cancer cell nuclei and tumors in vivo.
Abstract Mirabelle plums represent a famous fruit from the Lorraine region, however little is known about their phytochemical composition. The oil of the fruit contained predominantly oleic acid (59%) and linoleic acid (29%). The total content of phenolic antioxidants in the whole fruits was 5.338 g/kg with 456 mg/kg (9%), 701 mg/kg (13%) and 4159 mg/kg (78%) detected in the peels, flesh and pits respectively. The peels contained solely 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (270 mg/kg) and rutin (186 mg/kg), the flesh exclusively echinoids (723 mg/kg), whereas the pits contained a rich variety of phenolic compounds (4.2 g/kg) dominated by amygdalin (3.8 g/kg), but with significant contributions from vanillin (102 mg/kg), guajacyl-glycerin-coniferyl aldehyde isomers (87 mg/kg), dehydro-diconiferyl aldehyde (52 mg/kg), and vanillin diglucoside (48 mg/kg). Of the major phenolic compounds tested across a range of in vitro assays, rutin was the superior antioxidant.
A study of the effect of injection volume on retention time, peak width, peak height, and analyte resolution was undertaken by modeling and an experimental CCS procedure. It was found that the retention time of the analytes increased in a linear fashion as injection volume increases. Peak width and peak height increased as the injection volume increased. The resolution decreased as the injection volume increased, as was shown with a mixture of 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 2-mercaptobenzimidazole in a HEMWat SS. 215 Altogether, 276 g of cyanidin-3-glucoside was separated from 1.5 kg of crude Myrica rubra berry extract with a 40 L slow rotary CCC. A terBuAcWat (0.02% TFA) SS was employed. Rotation rate optimization was performed by measuring the stationary-phase volume retention ratio at six different rpm's. 216 Three flavonoids were isolated from Citrus aurantium fruits with EBuWat and ChBuMWat SSs. Optimization of flow rate, temperature, and rotation speed revealed that a flow rate of 2 mL/min, a revolution speed of 800 rpm, and a temperature of 30°C were optimal for separations on a 300 mL hydrodynamic instrument.
The alkaloid magnoflorine 1, has been isolated for the first time from Croton xalapensis (Euphorbiaceae), in addition two phenylpropenols derivates, 3,4-dimethoxy-(E)-cinnamyl alcohol 2 and 3,4-dimethoxy-5-hydroxy-(E)-cinnamyl alcohol 3, 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid 4, gallic acid 5, methyl gallate 6 and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid 7 have been also found; these compounds were identified by spectroscopic analysis particularly, 2D NMR and ESI-MS/MS techniques. The high concentration of magnoflorine, calculated with quantitative HPLC, of the aqueous extract, probably contributes to the remarkable medicinal properties of this plant. In addition this is the first phytochemical study on Croton xalapensis to be reported.
Two new xanthones, l,3,8-trihydroxy-2,4-dimethoxyxanthone (1) and 1,7-dihydroxy-2,8-dimethoxyxanthone (2), along with twelve known compounds 3-14 were isolated from leaves and twigs of Cratoxylum arborescens. Compound 1, euxanthone (4), betulinic acid (8), lup-20(29)-ene-3/3,30-diol (9), 3β-hydroxyl-up-20(29)-en-30-oic acid (10) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (11) displayed anti-HIV-1 activities in the syncytium assay using ΔTat/Rev MC99 virus and the 1A2 cell line system (EC 50 values between 3.9 and 32.2 μg/mL with Tl ranging from 1.5 to 11.7), while 1,3,7-trihydroxy-6-methoxy-4,5-diisoprenylxanthone (3), 4, and 8-10 inhibited HIV-1 reverse transcriptase with IC 50 values between 8.7 and 84.9 μg/mL.
This paper has summarized the study on the adsorption of chitosan and its derivatives to uranium in recent years at home and abroad.It was found that the derivatives can be serine-type chitosan,methyl phosphoric acid modified chitosan,3,4-dihydroxy benzoic acid-type chitosan,chitosan with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid moiety,chitosan resin possessing a phenylarsonic acid moiety,quadrol modified chitosan,chitosan modified with molecular imprinting technique,polyacrylamide hydrogel,chitosan-coated perlite and so on.The application vista of chitosan and its derivatives to Absorpt uranium in water has been prospected.
With the use of flame AAS, Sn(II) ions could be determined in the presence of Sn(IV). This method requires preconcentration and extraction of Sn(II) using a complexing agent. 7 Total tin in sea water was determined using flame AAS. 8 A spectrofluorimetric method was used for total tin in canned food. 9 Sn(II) and Sn(IV) ions could be determined simultaneously using spectrophotometric methods. 10 In some voltammetric methods, various modified electrodes have been used for the determination of Sn(IV). 11, 12 For adsorptive cathodic stripping voltammetric determination of Sn(II) on a glassy carbon electrode, some complexing agents, such as catechol 13 and tropolone complex 14 , have been used. The complex of Sn(IV)-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) was adsorbed on a hanging mercury drop electrode and tin was determined with cathodic stripping voltammetry. 15 Water samples were analyzed using a tin-chloranilic acid complex by adsorption on mercury drop after preconcentration.
The active components danshensu (DS) and puerarin (PA) of Tongmai dripping pills (TDP) and oral solution (TOS) were detected in rat plasma after liquid–liquid extraction and oral administration of formulated TDP and TOS. Simultaneous determinations were carried out using electrospray negative ionization mass spectrometry in multiple reaction monitoring mode. The corresponding ion transitions selected for quantitation of DS and PA were at m/z 197.1, 135.0 and m/z 415.2, 294.9, respectively. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was used as the internal standard and was monitored at m/z 153.1, 108.9. The linear calibration curves ranged from 9.56 to 637.00 ng mL−1 and 9.02 to 601.00 ng mL−1 for DS and PA, respectively. The lowest detectable limit and the lowest quantification limit for both DS and PA in rat plasma were 2.00 and 9.00 ng mL−1, respectively. The intra-day precision of the assay was less than 10.7% and 8.99% for DS and PA and inter-day precision was less than 14.8% and 14.2% for DS and PA, respectively. The accuracy ranged from 80.56 to 115.3% and 86.91 to 110.6% for DS and PA. This analytical method was applied to a pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence study of DS and PA. Statistical and bioequivalence analyses of DS and PA data for AUC0–24h and C max revealed that the 90% confidence intervals for the mean ratio (T/R) of DS and PA for AUC0–24h and C max were 91%–106% and 98%–116%, respectively.
Elevation of the total homocysteine (tHcy) concentration in plasma has been implicated in neurodegeneration in patients with stroke, dementia, Alzheimer disease, and Parkinson disease. Because the mechanisms controlling brain tHcy are unknown, the present study investigated its synthesis and transport in primary rat brain cell cultures. We found that the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) substrate 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) increased export of tHcy in astrocytes, but not in neurons. The export mechanism was selective for tHcy over cyst(e)ine, total glutathione (tGSH) or cysteinylglycine (Cys-Gly). tHcy export from astrocytes was also induced by the COMT substrates levodopa (L-DOPA), dopamine and quercetin, and it was blocked by the COMT inhibitors tropolone and entacapone. This export was associated with increased synthesis of tHcy because both intracellular and extracellular tHcy concentrations rose during COMT activation. Incubation in cyst(e)ine-deficient medium inhibited the tHcy export response to COMT activation. Exogenous tHcy (100 μM) was accumulated into neurons, but not into astrocytes. We conclude that activation of COMT causes sustained synthesis of Hcy in astrocytes and transport of this amino acid to neurons.© 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Only those compounds with vicinal hydroxyls on the benzene ring reacted extensively with As2O3 when heated at 130–16° in high-temperature coke-oven creosote. About two moles of 1,2-dihydroxybenzene, 1,2-dihydroxy-3-methylbenzene and 1,2-dihydroxy-4-methylbenzene reacted with one mole of As2O3; for 1,2,3-trihydroxybenzene and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid the ratio was about 2·7 and for 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid it was still higher. Similar reactions occurred in heavy petroleum, raw linseed, lubricant and paraffin oils. ::: ::: ::: ::: Arsenic derivatives have been synthesised either by gentle fusion of mixtures of the above compounds with As2O3, or by heating the reactants for 75 min in paraffin oil. The products, recrystallised from toluene, petroleum ether or toluene–ethanol are white, odourless, non-volatile and stable at temperatures of 150–200°.
Benzoates are a class of natural products containing compounds of industrial and strategic importance. In plants, the compounds exist in free form and as conjugates to a wide range of other metabolites such as glucose, which can be attached to the carboxyl group or to specific hydroxyl groups on the benzene ring. These glucosylation reactions have been studied for many years, but to date only one gene encoding a benzoate glucosyltransferase has been cloned. A phylogenetic analysis of sequences in the Arabidopsis genome revealed a large multigene family of putative glycosyltransferases containing a consensus sequence typically found in enzymes transferring glucose to small molecular weight compounds such as secondary metabolites. Ninety of these sequences have now been expressed as recombinant proteins in Escherichia coli, and their in vitro catalytic activities toward benzoates have been analyzed. The data show that only 14 proteins display activity toward 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Of these, only two enzymes are active toward 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, suggesting they are the Arabidopsis salicylic acid glucosyltransferases. All of the enzymes forming glucose esters with the metabolites were located in Group L of the phylogenetic tree, whereas those forming O-glucosides were dispersed among five different groups. Catalytic activities were observed toward glucosylation of the 2-, 3-, or 4-hydroxyl group on the ring. To further explore their regioselectivity, the 14 enzymes were analyzed against benzoic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, and 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The data showed that glycosylation of specific sites could be positively or negatively influenced by the presence of additional hydroxyl groups on the ring. This study provides new tools for biotransformation reactions in vitro and a basis for engineering benzoate metabolism in plants.
Plant secondary metabolites have an important role in defense responses against herbivores and pathogens, and as a chemical barrier to elevated levels of harmful air pollutants. This study involves the rapid chemical profiling of phenolic and diterpene resin acids in needles of two (ozone-tolerant and ozone-sensitive) white pine (Pinus strobus) clones, fumigated with different ozone levels (control, and daily events peaking at 80 and 200 ppb) for 40 days. The phenolic and resin acids were measured using thermally assisted hydrolysis and methylation (THM) gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Short-term fumigation affected the levels of two phenolic acids, i.e., 3-hydroxybenzoic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, in that both showed a substantial decrease in concentration with increased ozone dose. The decrease in concentration of these THM products may be caused by inhibition of the plant's shikimate biochemical pathway caused by ozone exposure. The combined occurrence of these two ozone-sensitive indicators has a role in biomonitoring of ozone levels and its impact on forest productivity. In addition, chromatographic profile differences in the major diterpene resin acid components were observed between ozone-tolerant and ozone-sensitive clones. The resin acids anticopalic, 3-oxoanticopalic, 3beta-hydroxyanticopalic, and 3,4-cycloanticopalic acids were present in the ozone-sensitive pine; however, only anticopalic acid was present in the ozone-tolerant clone. This phenotypic variation in resin acid composition may be useful in distinguishing populations that are differentially adapted to air pollutants.
3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde(3,4-DHB) was oxidatively el electropolymerized on glassy carbon (GC) electrodes to prepare CC/p-3,4-DHB type electrodes, which were subsequently modified with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3,4-DHBA) using 0.05M HCI as a catalyst. The esterification reactions were performed between -OH sites on the polymeric film surface of the p-3,4-DHB and the -COOH sites within the 3,4-DHBA molecules in solution. These reactions had a rate constant value of for the esterification step as obtained from the first-order rate constant in the solution. The electrochemical responses of the GC/p-3,4-DHB-3,4-DHBA electrodes exert an influence upon the buffer solution, its pH and applied potential ranges. The redox process of the electrode was more easily controlled by charge transfer kinetics than that of the CC/p-3,4-DHB. The modified electrodes had redox active sites that were 10 times more active than those present before modification. The electrical admittance of the modified electrodes was also three times higher than that of the unmodified electrodes. After being annealed in ethanol for 20 hrs the electrodes brought about a 3.3 times greater change of water molecules in the redox reaction. The modified electrodes are stable in the potential range of 0.4 to 0.55V.
Today we are beginning to understand how phytochemicals can influence metabolism, cellular signaling and gene expression. The hydroxybenzoic acids are related to salicylic acid and salicin, the first compounds isolated that have a pharmacological activity. In this review we examine how a number of hydroxyphenolics have the potential to ameliorate cardiovascular problems related to aging such as hypertension, atherosclerosis and dyslipidemia. The compounds focused upon include 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Pyrocatechuic acid), 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Gentisic acid), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Protocatechuic acid), 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (α-Resorcylic acid) and 3-monohydroxybenzoic acid. The latter two compounds activate the hydroxycarboxylic acid receptors with a consequence there is a reduction in adipocyte lipolysis with potential improvements of blood lipid profiles. Several of the other compounds can activate the Nrf2 signaling pathway that increases the expression of antioxidant enzymes, thereby decreasing oxidative stress and associated problems such as endothelial dysfunction that leads to hypertension as well as decreasing generalized inflammation that can lead to problems such as atherosclerosis. It has been known for many years that increased consumption of fruits and vegetables promotes health. We are beginning to understand how specific phytochemicals are responsible for such therapeutic effects. Hippocrates’ dictum of ‘Let food be your medicine and medicine your food’ can now be experimentally tested and the results of such experiments will enhance the ability of nutritionists to devise specific health-promoting diets.
The Knudsen mass-loss effusion technique was used to measure the vapor pressures at different temperatures of the following dihydroxybenzoic acids: 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (345.22 and 363.18) K; 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (376.22 and 392.11) K; 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (372.14 and 388.92) K; 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (347.14 and 365.17) K; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (387.12 and 403.26) K; and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, between (345.22 and 363.18) K. From the temperature dependences of the vapor pressure of the crystalline compounds, the standard (p0 = 105 Pa) molar enthalpies and Gibbs energies of sublimation, at T = 298.15 K, were derived. For each of the six isomers the standard (p0 = 0.1 MPa) molar enthalpy of formation in the crystalline phase was derived from the experimental standard molar energy of combustion, in oxygen, measured by static-bomb combustion calorimetry at T = 298.15 K. The combination of the standard molar enthalpy of formation in the cry...
Following degradation, different flavonoids give rise to different phenolic acids [14] . For example, the B-ring generates 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4,5-THBA/gallic acid) from delphinidin undergo autodegradation or microbial degradation to generate unstable intermediates such as chalcones or depsides which then further degrade to more stable phenolic acids such as 4-HBA, 3,4-DHBA, 3,4,5-THBA and 2,4,6-THBA. The chemical structure of the flavonoid A-ring (labelled within each flavonoid structure) is conserved and generates 2,4,6-THBA. The flavonoid B-ring (labelled within each flavonoid structure) can generate 4-HBA, 3,4-DHBA and 3,4,5-THBA depending on the number of hydroxyl groups. R 1 , R 2 and R 3 represent either hydrogen or hydroxyl groups and based on the position and number of -OH groups in the B-rings flavonoids generate monohydroxy-, dihydroxyor trihydroxybenzoic acids [9, 17, 18] . Following degradation, different flavonoids give rise to different phenolic acids [14] . For example, the B-ring generates 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4,5-THBA/gallic acid) from delphinidin with three -OH groups, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA/protocatechuic acid) from cyanidin with two -OH groups, and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) from pelargonidin with one -OH group [11, 19] . The degradation of other flavonoids such as catechin and epigallocatechin gallate also produce these phenolic acids [20, 21] . The A-ring from most flavonoids generate an unstable and reactive 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde (2,4,6-THBAld) [22, 23] , which is later oxidized to 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid (2,4,6-THBA) facilitated by host enzymes in the colon [9] . Due to the reported low bioavailability of flavonoids and their highly unstable nature which results in the generation of phenolic acids, it is suggested that the observed anti-cancer effects of flavonoids may actually come from the degraded products rather than the parent compounds [9, 19, 22] . This is further substantiated by several reports demonstrating the ability of 3,4-DHBA and 3,4,5-THBA to reduce cancer cell growth [24] [25] [26] [27] . However, limited studies exist regarding the potential of the A-ring derivative 2,4,6-THBA to act as an anti-cancer agent, which is the focus of this study.
Today we are beginning to understand how phytochemicals can influence metabolism, cellular signaling and gene expression. The hydroxybenzoic acids are related to salicylic acid and salicin, the first compounds isolated that have a pharmacological activity. In this review we examine how a number of hydroxyphenolics have the potential to ameliorate cardiovascular problems related to aging such as hypertension, atherosclerosis and dyslipidemia. The compounds focused upon include 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Pyrocatechuic acid), 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Gentisic acid), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Protocatechuic acid), 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (α-Resorcylic acid) and 3-monohydroxybenzoic acid. The latter two compounds activate the hydroxycarboxylic acid receptors with a consequence there is a reduction in adipocyte lipolysis with potential improvements of blood lipid profiles. Several of the other compounds can activate the Nrf2 signaling pathway that increases the expression of antioxidant enzymes, thereby decreasing oxidative stress and associated problems such as endothelial dysfunction that leads to hypertension as well as decreasing generalized inflammation that can lead to problems such as atherosclerosis. It has been known for many years that increased consumption of fruits and vegetables promotes health. We are beginning to understand how specific phytochemicals are responsible for such therapeutic effects. Hippocrates' dictum of 'Let food be your medicine and medicine your food' can now be experimentally tested and the results of such experiments will enhance the ability of nutritionists to devise specific health-promoting diets.
A new sensitive method for the determination of catechol O-methyltransferase activity has been developed. The method is based on the O-methylation of the indolic intermediates of melanin metabolism. The substrate, 5,6-dihydroxyindole-2-carboxylic acid, is converted by the enzyme to two O-methylated products, which can be separated by high-performance liquid chromatography and measured with fluorimetric detection. The physiological presence of both substrate and products could be detected in crude melanoma cell extracts. The limit of sensitivity for detection of the O-methylated products is less than 0.5 pmol per injection. The method was compared with an earlier described HPLC method which makes use of uv detection of O-methylated products of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The described method will be used to study the importance of catechol O-methyltransferase as a protective enzyme in (malignant) melanocytes.
(+/-)-5,5'-Dimethoxysesamin, erythrinasinate, indole-3-carbaldehyde, (7R,8S)-dihydrodehydrodiconiferyl alcohol 9-O-beta-D-glucopyranoside, cis- and trans-N-(p-coumaroyl)serotonin, serotonin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde have been found in tobiko, a food by-product, and evaluation of their peroxynitrite scavenging activities has been done. Among these compounds, serotonin, trans-N-(p-coumaroyl)serotonin, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid showed stronger activities than that of BHT (butylated hydroxytoluene) at 200 microM.
Detached leaves of Nicotiana tabacum L. (var. White Gold), treated with urea, potassium nitrate, kinetin, or p-hydroxybenzoic acid became more susceptible to ozone injury. The chemically induced susceptibility was reversed by a subsequent treatment with sucrose and, to a less extent, with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or L-cysteine. The degree of reversibility was proportional to the duration and concentration of the respective treatment. The chemical modification of ozone susceptibility was effective on leaves at different stages of maturity. In the urea-treated leaves, the level of cytoplasmic non-protein nitrogen was positively correlated with the severity of ozone injury (r = 0.617). Positive correlations between leaf sensitivity and both total soluble nitrogen and ammonia nitrogen were also significant. A sucrose treatment after urea treatment effectively reduced the soluble-nitrogen fractions.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA) was isolated from Acanthopanax senticosus as an antiplatelet aggregatory substance. This paper also reports the results of the investigations on the structural activity relationships among the various dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives against rat platelet aggregations induced by ADP (adenosine 5'-diphosphate), AA (arachidonic acid), or collagen.
An improved HPLC method, with fluorogenic detection, for the determination of catecholamine-o-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in the brain has been developed. A catechol compound, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4DOBA), was used as a highly fluorogenic substrate for COMT. The meta- and para-methylated products formed enzymatically from the substrate, after incubation with a brain region homogenate, were separated and measured using HPLC with fluorescence detection. This described method resulted in a more definitive enzyme product quantification with shorter analysis time than that previously described in the literature. This approach was used successfully to study COMT activity in vitro from small discreet brain regions of individual rats.
Local pH in the oral cavity can decrease to below 7 at the site where acid-producing bacteria are proliferating. Effects of pH on nitration of 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid were studied using dialyzed human saliva. Dialyzed saliva nitrated 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid to 4-hydroxy-3-nitrophenylacetic acid in the presence of nitrite and H(2)O(2). The rate of the nitration was dependent on pH, and the maximal rate was observed between pH 5.5 and 7.2. The optimum pH seemed to reflect rates of formation of nitrogen dioxide and 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid radicals. Quercetin inhibited the nitration. The quercetin-dependent inhibition might be due to scavenging of nitrogen dioxide and 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid radicals, which were formed by salivary peroxidase-dependent oxidation of nitrite and 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, respectively, and competition with nitrite and 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid for peroxidase in saliva. An oxidation product of quercetin was formed during inhibition of the nitration by quercetin. The oxidation product was identified as 2-(3,4-dihydroxybenzoyl)-2,4,6-trihydroxy-3(2H)-benzofuranone. This component could also be oxidized by salivary peroxidase and nitrogen dioxide radicals. The oxidation products were 2,4,6-trihydroxyphenylglyoxylic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. On the basis of the results, the significance of quercetin for inhibition of nitrogen dioxide formation and for scavenging of nitrogen dioxide radicals in the oral cavity is discussed.
Pyrogallol is a valuable phenolic compound and displays various physiological and pharmaceutical functions. Chemical synthesis of pyrogallol suffered from many issues, including environmental pollution, high cost, and low yield. Here, to address the above drawbacks, an artificial pathway for de novo pyrogallol production was established and this pathway only needed two exogenous enzymes (Y385F/T294A PobA and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase (PDC)). Y385F/T294A PobA is a mutant of PobA which is a hydroxylase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, while PDC is a decarboxylase from Klebsiella pneumoniae subsp. pneumoniae. First, the conversion efficiency of PDC was tested and 1800 ± 100 mg/L pyrogallol was generated from 4 g/L gallic acid (GA). Subsequently, assembly of the whole pathway enabled 33 ± 6 mg/L pyrogallol production from simple carbon sources. After that, based on the assembling property of CipA (a hydrophobic protein) and to enhance the hydroxylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, CipA was employed to organize its fusion (Y385F/T294A PobA) into protein crystalline inclusions (PCIs). Remarkably, the formation of CipA-Y385F/T294A PobA PCIs increased the pyrogallol production to 60 ± 6 mg/L, a 1.8 ± 0.4-fold higher value as compared to the strain without enzyme self-assembly. Additionally, the titer of pyrogallol was enhanced to 80 ± 1 mg/L through yeast extract concentration optimization. This work not only realizes the biosynthesis of pyrogallol from renewable carbon sources but also demonstrates that using CipA-mediating enzyme self-assembly could reinforce the hydroxylation efficiency of Y385F/T294A PobA, resulting in the enhancement of pyrogallol production.
Abstract Background Human exposure to phenols and parabens is widespread. Within-person variability of urinary concentrations in healthy women is not well characterized. Objectives To characterize the variability of urinary phenol and paraben concentrations across two months and evaluate the ability of a single spot urine sample to characterize exposure. Methods 143 women provided 509 spot urine samples collected across two months of study (3–5 samples/woman). We measured urinary concentrations of 8 phenols: bisphenol A (BPA), benzophenone-3 (BP-3), benzophenone-1 (BP-1), 2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP), 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (2,4,6-TCP), triclosan (TCS); and 8 parabens and their metabolites (benzyl (BzP), butyl (BuP), ethyl (EtP), heptyl (HeP), methyl (MeP), propyl (PrP), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB)). Biomarker variability was characterized using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and surrogate category analyses were conducted. Results ICCs ranged from very low for BPA (0.04) to moderate for BP-3, BP-1, TCS, BzP, and MeP (0.66, 0.58, 0.55, 0.54, and 0.62, respectively). Surrogate analyses suggested that BP-1, BP-3, TCS, 2,4-DCP, BuP, and PrP may be characterized by a single spot sample (sensitivity range 0.76–0.86) but that additional samples were necessary for BPA, HeP, 4-HB, and 3,4-DHB (sensitivity range 0.47–0.61). Conclusions Urinary phenol and paraben metabolite concentrations were variable across two months in healthy women but the degree of reliability differed by the specific biomarker. A small number of samples may sufficiently characterize typical concentrations for BP-3, BP-1, TCS, BuP, and PrP; but additional biospecimens may be necessary to characterize exposure for other compounds, including BPA.
The synthesis of side-chain 1 3 C-labeled geranylgeranyl-4-hydroxybenzoic acids and geranylgeranyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids is described. The synthesis starts from O-protected methyl hydroxyiodobenzoates, which are transformed into Grignard reagents by low-temperature iodine-magnesium exchange according to Knochel's procedure. Copper catalyzed cross-coupling with labeled geranylgeranyl bromide followed by deprotection affords the products with good yields and full retention of stereochemistry.
Abstract Phytochemical investigation of the aerial parts of Ligularia thomsonii has led to the isolation of three new phenylpropanoid glucosides ligularoside I (1), ligularoside II (2) and ligularoside III (3) along with nine known compounds; cinnamic acid (4), 3-phenylpropanoic acid (5), 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (6), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (7), p -coumaric acid (8), caffeic acid (9), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (10), kaempferol 3- O -β- d -glucopyranoside (11) and 3,5-di- O -caffeoylquinic acid (12), hitherto unreported from L. thomsonii . Their chemical structures were elucidated by spectroscopic analysis and chemical transformation. All these compounds were tested for antioxidant activity using the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging assay. Among them, compounds 9, 10 and 12 showed significant antioxidant activity against DPPH radicals with IC 50 of 19.6, 23.3 and 8.9 μm, respectively.
The mechanisms of action involved in the neurotoxicity of solvents are poorly understood. In vitro studies have suggested that the effects of some solvents might be due to the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This study assesses hydroxyl radical (OH) generation and measures malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the cerebral tissue of rats exposed to six solvents (n-hexane, n-octane, toluene, n-butylbenzene, cyclohexane and 1,2,4-trimethylcyclohexane). Three of these solvents have been shown to generate ROS in studies carried out in vitro on granular cell cultures from rat cerebellum. We assessed OH production by quantifying the rate of formation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid using a trapping agent, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, infused via the microdialysis probe, into the prefrontal cortex of rats exposed intraperitoneally to the solvents. Extracellular MDA was quantified in microdialysates collected from the prefrontal cortex of rats exposed, 6h/day for ten days, to 1000ppm of the solvents (except for n-butylbenzene, generated at 830ppm) in inhalation chambers. Tissue levels of free and total MDA were measured in different brain structures for rats acutely (intraperitoneal route) and sub-acutely (inhalation) exposed to solvents. None of the six solvents studied increased the production of hydroxyl radicals in the prefrontal cortex after acute administration. Nor did they increase extracellular or tissue levels of MDA after 10 days' inhalation exposure. On the other hand, a decrease in the concentrations of free MDA in brain structures was observed after acute administration of n-hexane, 1,2,4-trimethylcyclohexane, toluene and n-butylbenzene. Therefore, data of this study carried out in vivo did not confirm observations made in vitro on cell cultures.
The synthesis of side-chain 13 C-labeled geranylgeranyl-4-hydroxybenzoic acids and geranylgeranyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids is described. The synthesis starts from O-protected methyl hydroxyiodobenzoates, which are transformed into Grignard reagents by low-temperature iodine-magnesium exchange according to Knochel's procedure. Copper catalyzed cross-coupling with labeled geranylgeranyl bromide followed by deprotection affords the products with good yields and full retention of stereochemistry.
Abstract Five normal human subjects were used. Three subjects were infused with 250 μc of 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid 2- 14 C (DOMA) (sp. act., 17 mc/m-mole) over a period of 1 hr and two were injected i.v. over l min. Urine was collected at 10-min intervals for 1 hr after the 1-min injection and hourly after the 1-hr infusion for 6 hr, and then at 12 hr and at 24 hr. By using a special procedure and system herein described, the various metabolic products of DOMA were separated and identified and their radioactivity was measured. Within 24 hr after a 1-hr infusion of DOMA, 95·3 ± 1.2 per cent of the total radioactivity was recovered and 72·3 ± 0·6 per cent after a 1-min injection of DOMA. Results after the 1-hr infusion indicate that 17·7 ± 2·5 per cent of the infused (circulating) DOMA is recovered as 3-methoxy-4-hydroxymandelic acid, 7·7 ± 1·4 per cent as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2·0 ± 0·7 per cent as vanillic acid acid in 24 hr; 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid was present in trace amounts. Several unknown metabolites of DOMA were isolated, but not identified. Radioactive protocatechuic aldehyde was found in the urine, but was shown to be a degradation product of DOMA-2- 14 C rather than a metabolic product.
Abstract The fate of 13 C -labelled phenanthrene and fluoranthene in different soil systems during biodegradation was studied. The soil humic acid fraction was isolated followed by structural characterisation using 13 C -cross polarisation magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 13 C-CPMAS-NMR). It could be demonstrated that especially the ratio between the concentrations of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and soil humus matrix limits the usefulness of this analytical tool. Based on these results a ratio of 13 C -activity PAH / 13 C -activity soil ≈1.5/1.0 in the test material was suggested. The chemical transformation of a PAH and its bound residue formation in a soil system detected by changes of chemical shifts in the 13 C -NMR spectrum was proven for the first time. Structural information obtained by NMR spectra were verified by alkaline hydrolysis of PAH/humus-associations and following identification of cleavage products. Ester-bound phenanthrene metabolites such as 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, ortho -phthalic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were detected. Additional structural assignments indicated the presence of ether-bound phenanthrene derivatives as well. Using isotopic labelling techniques a quantitative evaluation of bound residue distribution was undertaken. Fifty to seventy percent of phenanthrene metabolites which could be related to the added 13 C 1 -phenanthrene were ester bound via their carboxyl groups.
Human erythrocyte (RBC) catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is under genetic control. Experiments were performed to determine whether COMT in the human lymphocyte is regulated in parallel with RBC COMT. Supernatants of lymphocyte homogenates contained COMT activity. However, they also contained a potent COMT inhibitor, the effect of which could be negated by dilution. Lymphocyte COMT activity was maximal at a reaction pH of 7.7 and at a MgCl2 concentration of 0.67mm. The apparent K m value for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the catechol substrate for the reaction, was 1.2×10−5m and that for S-adenosyl-l-methionine, the methyl donor, was 2.3×10−6m. An average of 48.3±3.3% (mean ± SEM) of the enzyme activity in crude lymphocyte homogenates from 3 subjects was removed by centrifugation at 100,000 g for 1 hr and was presumed to be membrane associated. The average COMT activity in lymphocytes isolated from blood of 23 randomly selected adult subjects was 14.0±1.2 units/106 cells (mean ± SEM) or 913±69 units/mg protein. There was a significant correlation of relative RBC with relative lymphocyte COMT activity in these 23 subjects. The correlation coefficient was 0.733 (P<0.001) when lymphocyte enzyme activity was expressed per milligram of protein and 0.649 (P<0.001) when lymphocyte activity was expressed per 106 cells. These results are compatible with the conclusion that the genetic polymorphism which regulates RBC COMT activity may also regulate the level of human lymphocyte COMT activity.
[Objective] To investigate the phenoic acids of Flos Sophorae for further research and development. [Methods] The chemical components were obtained by using chromatographies such as silica gel, ODS, Sephadex LH-20 and HPLC, and identified by the chemical and physical methods, especially spectral analysis. [Results] Five phenoic acids were obtained and identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(1), protocatechuic acid methyl ester(2), gallic acid(3), 4-methoxy-3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid(4), and citrusin C(5), respectively. [Conclusion] Compounds 2, 3, and 5 are obtained from sophora genus firstly.
The chemical constituents of Dimocarpus longan pericarp were isolated and purified by Sephadex LH-20,MCI gel CHP 20P,and Toyopearl Butly-650Ccolumn chromatography and yield six polyphenol compounds.Their structures were elucidated by NMR and literature as:3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(1),gallic acid(2),1,2,3,4,6-pentaO-galloyl-β-D-glucose(3),corilagin(4),acetonylgeraniin(5),(-)-epicatechin(6).All compounds were isolated from the D.longan Pericarp for the first time.
Prolyl 4-hydroxylase (EC 1.14.11.2) is an essential enzyme in the post-translational modification of collagen. Inhibitors of this enzyme are of potential interest for the treatment of diseases involving excessive deposition of collagen. 2,7,8-Trihydroxyanthraquinone (THA) is an effective inhibitor of prolyl 4-hydroxylase by virtue of its ability to compete with the co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate (Ki = 40.3 microM). Using a simple and reproducible assay for collagen hydroxylation, we show that THA inhibits the hydroxylation of collagen in embryonic-chick tendon cells in short-term culture, with an IC50 value (concn. giving 50% inhibition) of 32 microM. In comparison, the ethyl ester of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid has an IC50 value of 0.1 mM against collagen hydroxylation by chick tendon cells, whereas its Ki versus isolated prolyl 4-hydroxylase is 49 microM.
In recently, there has been a great interest in natural antioxidants as bioactive components of food, nutraceuticals or potential drugs against several diseases. In our study, 88 extracts from various parts of plants from European Asteraceae and Cichoriaceae were assayed for radical scavenging activity by means of DPPH (1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl hydrazyl radical) test using the SIA (Sequential injection analysis) method developed for this purpose in our laboratory. DPPH radical scavenging activity of all tested plant extracts was evaluated according to the IC(50) parameter. 29 extracts exhibited IC(50) value lower than 0.1 mg/mL. The leaves of Leuzea carthamoides (IC(50) = 0.046 mg/mL) were chosen as the most promising sample for a subsequent phytochemical study, which resulted in isolation of seven natural compounds, namely, 4',5,7-trihydroxy-6-methoxyflavone (hispidulin) (1), 5, 7, 3', 4'- tetrahydroxyflavanone (eriodictyol) (2), 3',4',5,7-pentahydroxy-6-methoxyflavonol (patuletin) (3), eriodictyol-7-beta-glucopyranoside (4), 6-hydroxykaempferol-7-O-(6''-O-acetyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside) (5), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (6) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) (7). Antioxidant activity of the isolated compounds was evaluated by DPPH test and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) test and compared with trolox and quercetin. Both tests evaluated the flavonoid (5) as the most active antioxidant. This result was confirmed by comparison with known data concerning the structure/activity relationships of flavonoids.
1. The initial rates and inhibition of rat brain catechol-O-methyltransferase were studied. Double reciprocal plots of initial rates versus either S-adenosyl-L-methionine or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, in the absence of product, gave a series of lines intersecting to the left of the ordinate. 2. Inhibition in the presence of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine was competitive but in the presence of vanillic acid was non-competitive if S-adenosyl-L-methionine was the varied substrate. 3. When 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was the varied substrate, both S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine and vanillic acid gave rise to a non-competitive inhibition. 4. The initial rate and product inhibition patterns were consistent with an ordered BiBi mechanism with S-adenosyl-L-methionine being the first substrate and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid the second substrate to combine with the enzyme. 5. In addition, these results suggest that vanillic acid is the first product and S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine the second product to dissociate from the enzyme. 6. The substrate analogues salsolinol and 3-carboxysalsolinol were competitive inhibitors with respect to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid but were non-competitive with respect to S-adenosyl-L-methionine. For enzymes with an ordered mechanism an uncompetitive inhibition would be expected. 7. A possible explanation is that both substrate analogues can combine with either free enzyme with lower affinity or with an intermediary enzyme form with much greater affinity. 8. A scheme which is consistent with the data is presented.
Summary ::: ::: A peroxidase-active, cell-free extract prepared from onion solid wastes was studied with regard to its biocatalytic properties, using fisetin (3,3′,4′,7-tetrahydroxyflavone) as substrate. This particular substrate was selected to investigate specifically the role of the A-ring of the flavonol skeleton in the oxidisability and cleavage pathway(s), and ascertain whether changes in substitution pattern may affect product formation, compared with quercetin (3,3′,4′,5,7-pentahydroxyflavone). Oxidation was shown to be optimum at pH values between 5 and 7 and temperatures between 20 and 40 °C. HPLC analyses of a fisetin solution treated with the cell-free extract revealed the formation of three major products, including 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (β-resorcylic acid) and the depside 2-(3,4-dihydroxybenzyloxy)-4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The tentative identification of these substances permitted an approach to a putative oxidation pathway, which appeared to have important similarities with that of quercetin.
Chemiluminescence reaction of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (abb. DHBA) with cerium*$ in the presence of Tween 40 as enhancer was investigated.A new chemiluminescence method for the determination of DHBA with flow injection technique was developed.The linear range for DHBA is from 8.0×10 -7 to 1.0×10 -4 mol/L with detection limit of 5.0×10 -7 mol/L. The relative standard deviation(RSD) is 3.0% for 8.0×10 -6 mol/L DHBA in 11 repeated measurements.The method has been used for determination of DHBA in water with satisfactory results.
BackgroundTribolium castaneum (Herbst) is a harmful pest of stored grain and flour-based products in tropical and subtropical region. In the present study, rhizome of Drynaria quercifolia (J. Smith) was evaluated for pesticidal and pest repellency activities against T. castaneum, using surface film method and filter paper disc method, respectively. In addition, activity of the isolated compound 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was evaluated against the pest.ResultsChloroform soluble fraction of ethanol extract of rhizome of D. quercifolia showed significant pesticidal activity at doses 0.88 to 1.77 mg/cm2 and significant pest repellency activity at doses 0.94 to 0.23 mg/cm2. No pesticidal and pest repellency activity was found for petroleum ether, ethyl acetate and methanol soluble fractions of ethanol extract as well as for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.ConclusionConsidering our findings it can be concluded that chloroform soluble fraction of rhizome of D. quercifolia is useful in controlling T. castaneum of stored grain and flour-based products.
Abstract Biomass combustion is a threat to the environment since it emits to the atmosphere organic compounds, which may react and originate others more aggressive. This work studied the behaviours of vanillic and syringic acids, small aromatic tracers of biomass burning, during Fenton-like oxidation in aqueous phase and absence of light. For both compounds, the extent of oxidation increased with pH decrease from neutral to acid in atmospheric waters, but for vanillic acid the neutral pH was not able of promoting the oxidation. With the oxidation of both acids were formed chromophoric compounds, and the formation rate increased with the degree of electron-donator substituents in benzene ring. The initial and produced compounds were not totally degraded up to 24 h of reaction at pH 4.5, suggesting that the night period may be not sufficient for their full degradation in atmospheric waters. The major compounds formed were the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid for vanillic acid, and the 1,4-dihydroxy-2,6-dimethoxybenzene for syringic acid. These findings suggest the occurrence of an ipso attack by the hydroxyl radical preferential to the methoxy and carboxyl groups of vanillic and syringic acids, respectively. It is important to highlight that for both aromatic acids the main compounds produced are also small aromatic compounds.
The speciation of 1 mM uranium(VI) in carbonate-free aqueous solutions of 50 mM protocatechuic acid (PCA, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) was studied in the pH range of 4.0 to 6.8 using EXAFS spectroscopy. The uranium L(III)-edge EXAFS spectra were analyzed using a newly developed computer algorithm for iterative transformation factor analysis (FA). Two structural different uranium(VI) complexes were observed. The speciation in the pH range of 4.0 to 4.8 is dominated by a 1:2 or 1:3 uranium(VI)/PCA complex with bidentate coordination of the carboxyl group to the uranium(VI) moiety. Already at pH 4.6 significant amounts of a second species are formed. This uranium(VI) species contains two PCA ligands that are bound to the uranium via their neighboring phenolic hydroxyl groups under formation of five-member rings.
Prolyl 4-hydroxylase (EC 1.14.11.2) is an essential enzyme in the post-translational modification of collagen. Inhibitors of this enzyme are of potential interest for the treatment of diseases involving excessive deposition of collagen. 2,7,8-Trihydroxyanthraquinone (THA) is an effective inhibitor of prolyl 4-hydroxylase by virtue of its ability to compete with the co-substrate 2-oxoglutarate (K, = 40.3 #tM). Using a simple and reproducible assay for collagen hydroxylation, we show that THA inhibits the hydroxylation of collagen in embryonic-chick tendon cells in short-term culture, with an IC50 value (concn. giving 50 % inhibition) of 32 /tM. In comparison, the ethyl ester of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid has an IC50 value of 0.1 mm against collagen hydroxylation by chick tendon cells, whereas its K1 versus isolated prolyl 4-hydroxylase is 49,tM.
Background: Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) is a harmful pest of stored grain and flour-based products in tropical and subtropical region. In the present study, rhizome of Drynaria quercifolia (J. Smith) was evaluated for pesticidal and pest repellency activities against T. castaneum, using surface film method and filter paper disc method, respectively. In addition, activity of the isolated compound 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was evaluated against the pest.
Results: Chloroform soluble fraction of ethanol extract of rhizome of D. quercifolia showed significant pesticidal activity at doses 0.88 to 1.77 mg/cm 2 and significant pest repellency activity at doses 0.94 to 0.23 mg/cm 2 . No pesticidal and pest repellency activity was found for petroleum ether, ethyl acetate and methanol soluble fractions of ethanol extract as well as for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Conclusion: Considering our findings it can be concluded that chloroform soluble fraction of rhizome of D. quercifolia is useful in controlling T. castaneum of stored grain and flour-based products.
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the compounds from the whole plant of Galium aparine var. tenerum. ::: ::: ::: METHOD ::: The various column chromatographic techniques were applied to isolate the chemical constituents. MS, NMR and 2D-NMR spectroscopic techniques were uesd to identify chemical structures. ::: ::: ::: RESULT ::: Six compounds were isolated from the EtOAc-soluble part of the 95% ethanol extract of the plant, and their chemical structures were identified as 1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-ethanone (1), vanillic acid (2), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), p-hydroxycinnamic acid (4), gallic acid (5), 4-hydroxytruxillic acid (6). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: The NMR data of compound 6 were completely assigned by 2D-NMR techniques, including 1H-1H COSY, HMQC and HMBC spectra. This was the first time to report isolation of the compound 6 from natural product. The compounds 1-5 was isolated from the genus Galium for the first time.
Abstract Different behaviors of catechol, 3-methylcatechol, 3-methoxycatechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenz-aldehyde and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were studied in the presence of 2,3-diaminonaphthalene in the phosphate buffer/acetonitrile solution at room temperature.
Summary ::: The major ether-soluble products from the hydrolysis of humic and fulvic acids include levulinic, succinic and fumaric acids, accompanied by more variable amounts of 4-hydroxy-, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. 3,5-Dihydroxy-benzoic acid was not detected in the hydrolysates examined.
AIM:To study the chemical constituents of Opuntia dillenii Haw..METHODS:Many kinds of chromatographic methods were used in the isolation procedure,while the structures of isolated compounds were elucidated by various spectroscopic and literatures data.RESULTS:A new flavonoid,together with five known compounds was isolated from the 80% ethanolic extract of its stems.Their structure were elucidated as ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (1),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2),quercetin 3-O-methyl-7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (3),kaempferol 7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (4) and manghaslin (5),and kaempferol 7-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl (1→4)-β-D-glucopyranoside (6).CONCLUSION:Compound 6 was a new chemical entity and compound 1～5 were isolated from this plant for the first time.
Abstract HPLC–PDA–MS 2 was used to identify phenolic and polyphenolic compounds in an herbal tea made from seeds of Anastatica hirerochuntica , a plant found in the Sahara–Arabian deserts and used to treat a variety of ailments. Twenty compounds comprising a series of flavone C- and O -linked glycosides, phenolic acids, chlorogenic acids and flavonols were identified or partially identified on the basis of co-chromatography with reference compounds and MS 2 and MS 3 fragmentation patterns. The flavones were the principal components, occurring as luteolin, apigenin and diosmetin conjugates. The antioxidant potential of individual compounds in Anastatica was assessed using HPLC with an on-line ABTS + detection system. This revealed that 14 compounds exhibited antioxidant activity. The highest contribution to the antioxidant capacity of the tea, 56%, came from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and caffeoyl- and dicaffeoylquinic acids while 6- C -glucosides of luteolin and apigenin contributed 41%.
It was found that when Rhodotorula rubra IFO 0911 was grown in a phenylalanine medium, benzoic acid and p-hydroxybenzoic acid besides cinnamic acid were formed in the cultured both. The conversions of cinnamic acid into benzoic acid and of benzoic acid into p-hydroxybenzoic acid, and the degradation of p-hydroxybenzoic acid were demonstrated in intact cells of Rhodotorula rubra. These activities were observed in the cells grown on various media, including the medium containing no phenylalanine, and were found to be distributed widely in Rhodotorula. The cells of Rhodotorula rubra were also able to degrade p-coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), p-hydroxyphenyl-acetic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (ferulic acid) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (vanillic acid). From these results, the metabolic pathways for phenylalanine and tyrosine in Rhodotorula were discussed.
Dihydroxybenzaldehyde (DHB) isomers can be oxidatively electrodeposited onto glassy carbon electrodes previously activated in base solution. We have studied the mechanism of such electrodeposition as well as the electrochemical features of films derived from 2,3-DHB, 3,4-DHB, 2,5-DHB, and 2,4-DHB isomers as well as related analogs including 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 4-nitrocatechol. The electrodeposition process and the electrochemical behavior of the modified electrodes were strongly dependent on pH as anticipated for quinone/hydroquinone functionalities. Glassy carbon electrodes modified with films derived from 2,3-DHB and 3,4-DHB exhibit catalytic activity in the electrooxidation of NADH. The catalytic currents are proportional to the concentration of NADH over the range 0.01−1.2 and 0.01−0.9 mM for films derived from 3,4-DHB and 2,3-DHB, respectively. These modified electrodes can be used in the design of biosensors based on coupled dehydrogenase enzymatic activities.
In order to explore the mechanism of yield reduction bean planted under Amorpha fruticosa,the allelopathic effect of water extracts of A.fruticosa on the seed germination and seedling growth of soybean and fababean,was investigated.The results showed that the allelopathic effect of water extracts of aerial part of A.fruticosa on soybean and fababean varied.Inhibition effect of water extracts of aerial parts of A.fruticosa on germination of soybean was stronger than that of fababean.The water extracts of A.fruticosa affected seedling height and dry weight,root length and dry weight of soybean,the synthetic inhibitory effect(SE) was in turn-12.77%,-31.35%,-27.24% and-36.76% followed with 6.25,12.5,25,50 mg/mL aerial part extracts,and the SE for fababean was 7.90%,-2.41%,-13.75% and-13.42%,respectively.The allelopathic inhibition rate increased with intense concentration of the water extracts of aerial part,with the SE being-2.44%,-16.88%,-20.75% and-25.09%,respectively.A significant increase in water soluble phenolic content,available phosphorus content and ammonium nitrogen content were recorded in soil amended with T1-T4 compared to unamended soil,and they increase with the increase of the concentration of water extracts of aerial part of A.fruticosa.However,an increase in the biomasses of soybean and/or fababean was not observed due to the increase of the concentration,the phenomenon may be allopathic effect of A.fruticosa on crop nutrient uptake.Main chemical compounds in the fraction extracted by ethyl acetate were formic acid,propionic acid,2-methyl-4-pentenoic acid,benzoic acid,3-phenylpropionic acid,4-hydroxybenzoic acid,DL-tartaric acid,cinnamic acid,4-coumaric acid,succinic acid,syringic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,2-methylphenol,2-methylbenzal dehyde,D-limonene,umbelliferone and 7-methoxyxoumarine
Objective: Chemical constituents of the non-saponins from Solanum nigrum L.were studied.Methods: The separation was performed on the silic gel CC,Sephadex-LH20 CC as well as preparative HPLC.The constituents were isolated and identified by spectral methods.Results: Five compounds isolated from 60% ethanol extract were identified as 6-methoxy-7hydroxycoumarin(Ⅰ),syringaresinol-4-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(Ⅱ),pinoresinol-4-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(Ⅲ),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅳ),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅴ),3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅵ),adenosine(Ⅶ).Conclusion: Ⅱ,ⅢandⅦ were isolated from this genus for the first time.
Eight compounds were isolated from Saxifraga stolonifera(L.) Meerb.The compounds were identified by spectral analysis(MS、IR、1H NMR and13C NMR) as 3,4-dihydroxy benzoic acid(1),amber acid(2),betulinic acid(3),3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester(4),5,7-Dthydroxychromone(5),Quercetin 3-O-β-L-rhamnopyranoside(6),Quercetin 5-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(7),1-O-β-D-glucopyranosyl-(2S,3S,4R,8E/Z)-2-[(2'R)-2'-hydroxytetracosanoylamino) ]-8-octadecene-1,3,4-triol(8).In addition to compounds 1,2,7,other compounds were first isolated from Saxifraga stolonifera(L.) Meerb.Testing the compounds on PC-3 prostate cancer cells in vitro inhibition by MTT showed that compounds 6 and 7 had the certain inhibition to the PC-3 prostate anceer,the extracts and compounds were tested by plate diffusion method for the inhibitory effect of different strains.compound 2 on Bacillus subtilis had potential inhibition.
Aim: To character the specific metabolomics profiles in the sera of Chinese patients with mild persistent asthma and to explore potential metabolic biomarkers. Methods: Seventeen Chinese patients with mild persistent asthma and age-and sex-matched healthy controls were enrolled. Serum samples were collected, and serum metabolites were analyzed using GC-MS coupled with a series of multivariate statistical analyses. Results: Clear intergroup separations existed between the asthmatic patients and control subjects. A list of differential metabolites and several top altered metabolic pathways were identified. The levels of succinate (an intermediate in tricarboxylic acid cycle) and inosine were highly upregulated in the asthmatic patients, suggesting a greater effort to breathe during exacerbation and hypoxic stress due to asthma. Other differential metabolites, such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and phenylalanine, were also identified. Furthermore, the differential metabolites possessed higher values of area under the ROC curve (AUC), suggesting an excellent clinical ability for the prediction of asthma. Conclusion: Metabolic activity is significantly altered in the sera of Chinese patients with mild persistent asthma. The data might be helpful for identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets for asthma.
Our GC-MS analysis demonstrates that metabolic alterations indeed occur in asthmatic patients, specifically patients with mild persistent asthma. Differential metabolites in the serum, such as succinate, inosine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and phenylalanine, that possess the highest VIP or AUC values might be of great value for the diagnosis of asthma. The pathway and function analysis might provide a comprehensive understanding of asthma disease etiology and novel biomarkers for asthma assessment and treatment.
Cocrystals have been increasingly recognized as an attractive alternative delivery form for solids of drug products. In this work, salicylic acid was employed as a cocrystal former with the nicotinic acid, dl-phenylalanine, and 6-hydroxynicotinic acid (6HNA). Also, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid with oxalic acid was studied. The cocrystals in all cases were prepared by slow evaporation from ethanol followed by characterization using Raman spectroscopy, powder X-ray diffraction, transmission Raman spectroscopy (TRS), and differential scanning calorimetry. Full understanding of the effects of formation on the vibrational modes of motion was obtained by the complete assignment of the spectra of the starting materials and of the cocrystal components. The results show that all the cocrystals, prepared in a 1:1 molar ratio, possess unique thermal, spectroscopic, and X-ray diffraction properties. Raman and TRS spectra showed that the vibrational modes of the cocrystal were different from those of the starting materia...
In the present study, the metabolic pathways involved in the degradation of benzyl alcohol and 1-butanol, the hydrolyzed products of butyl benzyl phthalate, were investigated by the Gordonia sp. strain MTCC 4818. The strain can utilize both benzyl alcohol and 1-butanol individually as sole carbon sources, where benzyl alcohol was found to be metabolized via benzaldehyde, benzoic acid and catechol, which was further degraded by ortho-cleavage dioxygenase to cis,cis-muconic acid and subsequently to muconolactone leading to tricarboxylic acid cycle. On the other hand, 1-butanol was metabolized via butyraldehyde and butyric acid, which was channeled into the tricarboxylic acid cycle via the beta-oxidation pathway. Numbers of dehydrogenases, both NAD+-dependent and NAD+-independent, were found to be involved in the degradation of benzyl alcohol and 1-butanol, where several dehydrogenases exhibited relaxed substrate specificity. Both 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids were utilized by the test organism for growth and metabolized by the ortho-cleavage pathway by the cell-free extract of benzoate-grown cells, similar to catechol, suggesting possible broad substrate specificity of the ring cleavage dioxygenase. Moreover, the test organism can utilize various primary and secondary alcohols, aliphatic aldehydes and acids in the C2-C5 range besides n-hexadecane, 1,4-butanediol and cyclohexanol individually as the sole carbon sources indicating metabolic diversity in the Gordonia sp. strain MTCC 4818.
Oxidative coupling reaction of some catechols has been studied by cyclic voltammetry at the glassy carbon electrode in different experimental conditions. The electrogenerated o-banzoquinone participates in a coupling reaction with anionic and dianionic forms of catechol. Based on EC mechanism, the observed homogenous rate constants of the coupling reaction of catechols were estimated by analyzing the cyclic voltammetric responses using the simulation software DIGIELCH. This paper deals with reaction of o-benzoquinones derived by the oxidation of catechol (CAT), 3-methylcatechol (3-MC), 3-methoxycatechol (3-MOC) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) with cycloheptylamine (a primary aliphatic amine) and aniline (a primary aromatic amine) as nucleophiles to gain mechanistic insight. The outcome indicates participation of o-benzoquinone in the Michael addition reaction with the studied primary amines. The best fit of the experimental and simulated results was obtained for ECE mechanism. The calculated/estimated homogeneous rate constants (k obs) for Michael addition reaction were found to vary in the order CAT >3-MC >3-MOC >3,4-DHBA and CAT >3,4-DHBA >3-MC >3-MOC for cycloheptylamine and aniline, respectively. These data are in agreement with the trend of electronic properties (electron-donating/-withdrawing) of the substitutions on the catechol ring.
Abstract The electrochemical interfacial adsorption of a series of polyphenolic molecules (i.e. polyhydroxybenzoic acids) at the Hanging Mercury Drop Electrode (HMDE)–electrolyte interfaces were investigated using Square Wave-Adsorption Cathodic Stripping Voltammetry (SW-AdCSV) at pH 7.5. Polyhydroxybenzoic acids bearing one 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, two 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic) or three 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic) OH-groups at positions C3, C4 and C5 on the benzene ring were studied. The complex interfacial electrochemical behaviour of these molecules has been deconvoluted to (i) adsorption evens and (ii) redox formations at the HMDE interface. The approach presented is based on the comparative analysis of the SW-AdCSV signals in conjunction with the molecular structure of the molecules. Accordingly, theoretical calculations, involving nonlinear-fit, resulted in the identification of the interfacial reaction mechanism of adsorbed gallic acid on the HMDE.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of Hypericum sampsonii Hance. Methods The compounds were isolated by silica gel column chromatography,gel column chromatography and recrystallization, and their structures were elucidated by means of spectral analyses. Results Nine compounds were identified as 1,7-dihydroxyxanthone(1),1,3,5,6-tetrahydroxyxanthone(2),5,7,4′-trihydroxyflavonol(3),5,7,3′,4′-tetrahydroxyflavonol(4),hyperin(5),kaempferol-3-O-glucosylside(6),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(7),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(8),betulinic acid(9). Conclusion Compound 7and 9 are isolated from the plants of Hypericum sampsonii Hance for the first time.
In this study, microemulsion electrokinetic chromatography (MEEKC) and micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) were compared for their abilities to separate and detect thirteen phenolic compounds (syringic acid, p-coumaric acid, vanillic acid, caffeic acid, gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, (+)-catechin, (-)-epigallocatechin, (-)-epicatechin gallate, (-)-epigallocatechin gallate, (-)-epicatechin, and (-)-gallocatechin), and two other ingredients (caffeine and theophylline) in teas and grapes. Separation of phenolic compounds was improved by changing the SDS concentration for MEEKC, but the SDS concentration rarely affected the resolution for MEKC. Organic modifier (acetonitrile or methanol) was found to markedly influence the resolution and selectivity for both MEEKC and MEKC systems. In addition, a higher voltage and a higher column temperature improved the separation efficiency without any noticeable reduction in resolution for MEEKC whereas they caused a poor resolution for the MEKC system. Although separations with baseline resolution were achieved by the optimized MEEKC and MEKC methods, the separation selectivity resulting from the proposed MEEKC method was completely different from that of MEKC.
Spodoptera litura (Fabricius) is economically important in many countries. Many biopesticides have been developed and studied to control this pest species; however, few natural products from marine organisms have been studied for their pesticidal efficiency. This study compared the acute contact toxicity of solvent extracted from the viscera of Holothuria atra and isolated triterpene glycoside compounds on third-instar S. litura. Our results showed that crude methanolic extracts were the most toxic to the larvae (LC50 ~ 10.37 mg/ml) compared with other crude extracts and contained the bioactive compound 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (LC50 ~ 6.01 mg/ml). All crude extracts and isolated triterpene glycoside compounds inhibited carboxylesterase activity. The efficiency and effectiveness of H. atra extractions and triterpene glycoside compounds against S. litura indicate their potential use in integrated pest management programs and the overall value of marine species as natural sources of insecticidal compounds.
Photosensitized oxidation of catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxy-dihydrocinnamic acid (DHCA), and 3,4-dihydroxy-phenylalanine (DOPA) by novel anticancer agents, anthrapyrazoles (AP), has been studied employing EPR and the spin trapping technique. The formation of o-semiquinone radicals, the one-electron oxidation products of the catechols, stabilized in the form of zinc ion complexes, has been demonstrated. Rate constants for the disproportionation of the semiquinone radical/Zn2+ complexes in (DMSO)/acetate buffer (pH 4.5, 1:1 vol/vol; 100 mM Zn2+) mixture have been determined to be 0.35 x 10(4), 14 x 10(4), 8.8 x 10(4) and 3 x 10(4) M-1 s-1 for catechol, DHBA, DHCA and DOPA respectively. The presence of oxygen enhanced rather than inhibited the photogeneration of the o-semiquinone radicals and facilitated their EPR detection. The EPR spectrum of the superoxide radical adduct with the spin trap 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide was observed for the first time during photosensitized oxidation of the catechols in acidic aqueous solutions and in DMSO/acetate buffer mixture.
In 0.05 M acetate buffer, pH 4, containing 1% methanol, caffeic acid (1a) (2 x 10(-3) M) reacted smoothly with nitrite (NO(2)(-)) (4 x 10(-3) M) to afford as main products the novel 2-hydroxy- and 2-methoxyaldoximes 7a,b, the 2-oxoaldoxime 9a, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, and the known furoxan 3c and benzoxazinone 4b in smaller amounts. At lower 1a concentration (e.g., 1 x 10(-4) M), 7a was the main product, whereas with 0.1 M 1a and 0.5 M NO(2)(-) 3c and 9a were prevailing. At pH 2, 7a was still the most abundant product, together with 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and some 9a, whereas at pH 1 9a and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde were formed in higher yields. No evidence for ring nitration products, including the previously reported 4,5-dihydroxy-2-nitrobenzaldehyde, was obtained. At 2 x 10(-3) M concentration and at pH 4, caffeic acid methyl ester (1b) reacted with NO(2)(-) chiefly via ring nitration and/or dimerization to give 5a, the novel nitrated neolignan derivative 10, and the parent 6. Chlorogenic acid (1c) afforded only the ring nitrated derivative 5b. A unifying mechanism for the reaction of 1a and its esters with NO(2)(-) is proposed involving reversible formation of nitroso intermediates via chain nitrosation at the 2-position of the (E)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)propenoic system. In the case of 1a, decarboxylation would drive the nitroso intermediates toward the formation of oximes 7a,b and 3c, reflecting nucleophilic addition of water, methanol, and NO(2)(-), and their oxidation or breakdown products, viz. 9a, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and the benzoxazinone 4b. In the case of esters 1b,c, to which decarboxylation is precluded, ring nitration or dimerization become the favored routes, triggered by preliminary oxidation at the catechol moiety.
In continuation of our research on the chemical constituents of Pulicaria gnaphaloides [1], we isolated eight phenolic compounds (1–8) using column chromatography of EtOAc fractions and elution by CHCl3 and a CHCl3–MeOH gradient (9:1 and 4:1). The structures of the isolated compounds were elucidated using spectral data (PMR, 13C NMR, DEPT, HSQC, HMBC, COSY) and comparisons with the literature in addition to direct comparison with authentic samples. They were identified as p-hydroxybenzoic acid (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester (2), luteolin (3), quercetin (4), isoquercitrin (5), hyperoside (6), rutin (7), and quercetin 3-rhamnosyl-(1 6)-galactoside (8). p-Hydroxybenzoic acid (1), C7H6O3, white crystals, mp 159.5°C. Compound 1 was identified as p-hydroxybenzoic acid using spectral data [2]. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic Acid Methyl Ester (2). C8H8O4, white crystals, mp 137–138°C. Its spectral data agreed with those published [2]. Luteolin (3). C15H10O6, light-yellow powder, mp 328–330°C. PMR and 13C NMR spectra agreed with those published [3]. Quercetin (4). C15H10O7, light-yellow crystals, mp 305–307°C. Spectral data and a comparison with the literature identified 4 as quercetin [2]. Isoquercitrin (5). C21H20O12, yellow powder, mp 248–250 C. 1H NMR spectrum (600 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm, J/Hz): 7.58 (1I, d, J = 1.8, H-2 ), 7.57 (1I, d, J = 9.0, I-5 ), 6.85 (1I, dd, J = 1.8; 9.0, H-6 ), 6.39 (1I, d, J = 2.4, I-8), 6.19 (1I, d, J = 2.4, I-6), 5.46 (1I, d, J = 7.8, I-1 ), 12.63 (1I, 5-II), 10.92 (1I, 7-II), 9.67 (1I, 4 -II), 9.41 (1I, 3 -II). 13C NMR spectrum (150 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm): 156.29 (N-2), 133.28 (N-3), 177.38 (N-4), 161.21 (N-5), 98.65 (N-6), 162.21 (N-7), 93.47 (N-8), 156.11 (N-9), 103.90 (N-10), 121.56 (N-1 ), 116.15 (N-2 ), 144.78 (N-3 ), 148.44 (N-4 ), 113.41 (N-5 ), 121.12 (N-6 ), 104.84 (N-1 ), 74.07 (N-2 ), 76.48 (N-3 ), 70.91 (N-4 ), 77.55 (N-5 ), 60.95 (N-6 ) [4]. Acid hydrolysis of 5 produced quercetin and D-glucose. Hyperoside (6). C21H20O12, yellow powder, mp 231–232°C. Acid hydrolysis detected quercetin and D-galactose [1]. Rutin (7). C27H30O16, yellow powder, mp 193–195°C. Acid hydrolysis of 7 produced quercetin, D-glucose, and L-rhamnose [5]. Quercetin 3-rhamnosyl-(1 6)-galactoside (8). C27H30O16, yellow powder, mp 186–188 C. 1H NMR spectrum (400 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm, J/Hz): 7.55 (2H, dd, J = 1.8, 8.5, H-2 , 6 ), 6.84 (1H, d, J = 8.5, H-5 ), 6.33 (1H, d, J = 2.0, H-8), 6.14 (1H, d, J = 2.0, H-6), 5.33 (1H, d, J = 7.5, H-1 ), 4.39 (1H, s, H-1 ), 1.01 (3H, d, J = 6.0, CH3-6 ), 3.04–3.40 galactose and rhamnose protons, 12.56 (1I, s, 5-II). 13C NMR spectrum (100 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm): 156.94 (N-2), 133.62 (N-3), 177.52 (N-4), 161.55 (N-5), 99.48 (N-6), 165.21 (N-7), 94.20 (N-8), 156.74 (N-9), 103.81 (N-10), 121.99 (N-1 ), 116.52 (N-2 ), 145.24 (N-3 ), 149.07 (N-4 ), 115.63 (N-5 ), 121.43 (N-6 ), 101.79 (N-1 ), 74.51 (N-2 ), 76.29 (N-3 ), 70.97 (N-4 ), 76.87 (N-5 ), 67.42 (N-6 ), 101.17 (N-1 ), 70.77 (N-2 ), 70.39 (N-3 ), 72.26 (N-4 ), 68.66 (N-5 ), 18.17 (N-6 ) [6]. Acid hydrolysis of 8 produced quercetin, D-galactose, and L-rhamnose. p-Hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester, luteolin, quercetin, and quercetin 3-rhamnosyl(1 6)-galactoside were isolated for the first time from the genus Pulicaria; isoquercitrin and rutin, for the first time from Pulicaria gnaphaloides.
Abstract The reaction between titanium(IV) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid in aqueous media results in an intensely colored complex which is stable for at least 8h. It allows the spectrophotometric determination of titanium in silicate rocks. The proposed method, in pH 4.0–6.0, shows a molar absorptivity of 1.43.104 L.mole−1.cm−1 at 380 nm. Beer's Law is obeyed up to 3.0 μg/mL of titanium(IV). The interference of iron(III) can be eliminated by reduction to iron(II) with hydroxylamine hydrochloride. The method was applied to the determination of titanium in various standard rocks and the results indicated that the accuracy and precision are satisfatory.
Illicium griffithii is a medicinal tree species of the temperate broad-leaved forests of North East India; its fruits are used in the pharmaceutical and spice industries. The fruits are used medicinally to treat cough, sinusitis, toothache, regurgitating, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, and food poisoning and are considered carminative, stomachic, and glactagogic. The present study was aimed to evaluate the cytotoxicity, α-glucosidase inhibitory potential, antioxidant, and free radical scavenging activities of hexane, ethyl acetate, and methanol extracts of I. griffithii fruits. Ethyl acetate extract (EAE) exhibited 78.7 % toxicity at the dose of 500 μg/ml with IC50 value of 300 μg/ml against A549 human adenocarcinoma lung cancer cell line, 50 % α-glucosidase inhibition at 810.32 ± 1.28 μg/ml concentration, and potent scavenging activity at 1,000 μg/ml on DPPH (91.12 % ± 2.08), CUPRAC (2.384 ± 0.03), reducing power (0.847 ± 0.02), lipid peroxidation (55.52 % ± 1.56), hydroxyl (75.83 % ± 1.47), and DMPD (76.12 % ± 1.35). It additionally showed maximum activity at 300 μg/ml on total antioxidant activity (0.290 ± 0.04 GAE mg/g) and FRAP (2.150 ± 0.23 mM Fe2+/g). The results demonstrated that EAE possessed marked activity in all the tested biological parameters. On further fractionation, EAE gave an active fraction F3. Two phenolic compounds were isolated and identified (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid) from this fraction for the first time. I. griffithii showed promising cytotoxic and antioxidant activities.
Mutations in COQ6 cause a form of steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome with a variable degree of neurologic involvement [4] . COQ6 encodes for a monooxygenase comprised in the CoQ complex, responsible for the C5-hydroxylation of the quinone ring. Vanillic acid (VA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4 diHB), two analogues of 4HB that carry either a methoxyl or a hydroxyl group in position 5 of the ring, can bypass the Coq6 defect in yeast harboring catalytically inactive, but structurally stable, Coq6 alleles, which allow the formation of the CoQ complex [5] .
Highly Efficient and Stable Novel NanoBiohybrid Catalyst to Avert 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic Acid Pollutant in Water
The present study reported for the first time covalent immobilization of protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase (3,4-POD) onto functionalized multi-walled carbon nanotubes (F-MWCNT) for degrading the toxic 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) pollutant in water. The F-MWCNTs had a maximum 3,4-POD loading of 1060 μg/mg. Immobilized 3,4 POD had 44% of relative structural changes to its free configurations. Nevertheless, >90% of relative activity and about 50% of catalytic efficiency were retained to the free enzyme. Immobilized 3,4-POD demonstrated higher alkaline stability and thermostability than the free 3,4-POD. The free and immobilized 3,4-POD lost 82% and 66% of relative activities, respectively after 180 min of incubations at 90 °C. Excellent shelf-life was observed for the immobilized 3,4-POD with residual activity of 56% compared with 41% and 39% of the free 3,4-POD at 4 °C and 25 °C over 30 days storage. Immobilized 3,4-POD showed >60% of catalytic activity retention even after ten-cycle uses, defraying the expenses of free 3,4-POD productions for long term uses. Finally, the immobilized 3,4-POD removed 71% of 3,4-DHBA from water in <4 h, paving its future application for water purification with reduced costs and time.
Eight compounds were isolated from the whole plants of Genticma loureirii Griseb.They were identified as apigenin(1), aesculetin(2),(2'S)2',3'-dihydroxypropyl 1,6,8-trihydroxy-3-methylanthraquinone-2-carboxylate(3),luteolin(4),quercetin(5), quercetin-3-O-β-D-glucoside(6),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(7),β-daucosterol(8).All these compounds were obtained from G loureirii for the first time.
Abstract In order to establish the parameters to obtain aqueous mate extract with the highest content of total phenolic compounds (TPC), the response surface methodology (RSM) was used. The extract obtained at 100 °C, within 3 min and with pH of 6.0 was submitted to nanofiltration to concentrate the phenolic compounds of mate ( Ilex paraguariensis A. St. Hill). The total phenolic content values in the permeate and in the concentrate collected in different volumetric reduction factors (VRF) were different from those detected in the feed extract. The concentration of phenolic compounds increased when VRF was increased, reaching the highest retention index ( R ) of 0.99 when VRF was 4.0. The permeate and the concentrate obtained in VRF 4.0 were verified through HPLC. 4,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid and gallic acid showed retention index of 1.00 and 0.95, respectively, while 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and chlorogenic acid reached 0.99 and 0.98, respectively.
Chemical investigation of the EtOH extract of a rice-fermented deep-sea-derived fungal strain, Engyodontium album, led to the isolation of a new benzoic acid derivative, named engyodontiumin A (1), together with four known compounds, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 3-(2,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propionic acid (3), 3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid (4), and trans-4-hydroxycinnamic acid (5). This strain was isolated from a marine sediment sample collected in the Atlantic Ocean (24°23′ W, 0°8′N, 3542 m depth). Their structures were elucidated by spectroscopic analyses, including 1H NMR, 13C NMR, 2D NMR (HSQC, HMBC, COSY), and HR-ESI-MS.
The initial step in the biosynthesis of suillin (1), boviquinone-4 (2) and bovilactone-4,4 (3) in Suillus species is the geranylgeranylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid at the 2-position. Feeding experiments with advanced precursors have identified boviquinone-4 and deacetylsuillin (9) as building blocks for the dilactone and catechol moieties, respectively, of bovilactone-4,4 (3). In order to explain the failure of boviquinone-4 (2) to incorporate side-chain-labelled deacetylsuillin (9#), an alternative sequence for the formation of 2 is proposed. During these experiments an interesting change in metabolism was noticed: after administration of larger quantities of aromatic carboxylic acids, the boviquinone-4 present in the fruit bodies disappeared and de novo synthesis of bovilactone-4,4 occurred. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2008)
Objective To study the chemical constituents of Hibiscus trionum Linn..Methods The compounds were isolated by chromatography on silica gel,Sephadex LH-20 columns and the recrystallization methods.Chemical properties and NMR data were employed for the structural identification.Results Seven compounds were isolated,their structures were identified as caffeic acid(1),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2),3-methoxyl-4-hydroxybenzoic acid(3),ethyl gallate(4),benzoic acid(5),succinic acid(6),adenosine(7),respectively.Conclusions Compounds 1,3,4,5,7 are obtained from the Hibiscus genus for the first time and 17 are isolated from Hibiscus trionum Linn.for the first time.
AsbF structure ͉ dehydratase ͉ siderophore ͉ virulence factor S iderophore production in pathogenic bacteria has gained considerable attention because of its crucial function in essential iron uptake by many microbes and the relevance of siderophore-associated proteins as molecular markers of various infectious agents (1). In Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax, 2 siderophores, petrobactin and bacillibactin (Fig. 1A) , play a significant role during iron acquisition (2-4), but only petrobactin is absolutely essential for full virulence within a mammalian host (5). This siderophore was initially discovered from the Gram-negative marine bacterium Marinobacter hydrocarbonoclasticus, whose genome bears a biosynthetic gene cluster homologous to the B. anthracis asb operon (2). Recent genetic and chemical analysis suggests that petrobactin biosynthesis may also be a prerequisite for virulence in related Bacillus species (6). These studies highlight the importance of elucidating the mechanisms of siderophore production in pathogenic microbes as a target for abrogating infection by organisms like B. anthracis, a rapidly virulent microbe with proven potential as a bioterrorism agent. Based on these factors, we have initiated studies to investigate key biosynthetic enzymes for petrobactin assembly in efforts to establish new antimicrobial targets to protect against anthrax. Eliminating petrobactin in pathogenic microbes is particularly important among catecholate siderophores, because the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) moiety enables the molecule to escape sequestration by the mammalian immune protein siderocalin (7, 8) . However, the genes responsible for mediating production of this metabolic precursor have remained undefined, as has the biochemical mechanism of its assembly.
The cluster formation of several aromatic carboxylic acids, ferulic acid, vanillic acid, sinapinic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was investigated by means of laser desorption into a supersonic beam followed by multiphoton ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The formation of not only homogeneous clusters, but also of heterogeneous clusters with some small amino acids was studied. The different neutral clusters formed in the supersonic expansion were ionized by a multiphoton process employing either nano- or femtosecond laser pulses. ::: ::: ::: ::: Strong differences in the detection of cluster ions due to the laser pulse length employed for multiphoton ionization were observed. Only femtosecond activation led to mass spectra with intense signals of the cluster ions. In addition, in the case of femtosecond ionization, protonated amino acids were detected in the mass spectra. As direct ionization of the free amino acids is not possible under the chosen ionization conditions because they lack an adequate chromophore, these protonated amino acids are assumed to be formed via an intracluster proton transfer in the heterogeneous dimer and subsequent decay of the ionized cluster (dissociative proton transfer). Such well-known processes for heterogeneous clusters consisting of a substituted aromatic molecule and small polar solvent molecules may be involved in the matrixassisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) process.
This relatively simple, rapid method for quantification of homovanillic acid (HVA) and vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) involves solvent extraction and capillary gas chromatography. With use of this extraction method, the overall analytical recovery from an aqueous solution is 92.5% for HVA and 79.2% for VMA. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid is the internal standard. Minimal detectable quantities with this method are less than 1 mg/g of creatinine. Capillary gas chromatography produces a chromatogram that is superior to that of packed-column gas chromatography. We also report quantitative results for urinary HVA and VMA in neuroblastoma patients and in normal individuals, demonstrating the diagnostic value of this method.
A new compound maleimide-5-oxime was isolated, together with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, tetillapyrone, from the ethyl acetate extract of the marine sponge Haliclona baeri while tetillapyrone, nortetillapyrone, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and phenylacetic acid were isolated from the ethyl acetate extract of Haliclona cymaeformis, collected from the Gulf of Thailand. The structures of tetillapyrone and nortetillapyrone were re-examined using HMBC correlations. Maleimide-5-oxime, tetillapyrone and nortetillapyrone were found to be inactive against three human tumor cell lines (the estrogen-dependent ER(+) MCF-7, the estrogen-independent ER(-) MDA-MB-231 and NCI-H460. Maleimide-5-oxime, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde, phenylacetic acid, tetillapyrone and nortetillapyrone were evaluated for their growth inhibitory effect against seven yeasts and eight filamentous fungi. Only nortetillapyrone showed antifungal activity, with a preponderance on the dermatophytic filamentous fungi.
Abstract The 1:2:1 reaction of CdCl2·2.5H2O with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-H3dhb) and KOH in PrnOHH2O gave the unique, seven-coordinate cadmium(II) complex [Cd(3,4-H2dhb)2(H2O)3]·HCl·(3,4-H3dhb)·2.5H2O as one of the products. Crystal structure and 13Cd NMR studies showed that 3,4-H2dhb− behaves as a bidentate chelate with ligated atoms being the carboxylate oxygens, but the seven-coordination is not retained in aqueous solution.
The use of a new LC-MS interface (cap-EI), part of a Waters Integrity system, capable of generating EI spectra at micro flow rates is presented. The cap-EI interface relies on the production of a fine aerosol by means of a nebulizer and supported by a nitrogen jet. Sensitivity, response linearity, reproducibility, and LC compatibility of the interface were thoroughly examined using testosterone, caffeine, a mixture of antiinflammatory drugs, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as test compounds. The interface is fully compatible with LC requirements such as high-water- and/or -buffer-content mobile phases. Reproducibility, high sensitivity in scan mode, as well, to produce library-searchable EI spectra, 2 orders of magnitude linearity, together with an intrinsic simplicity of the entire system are the key features of cap-EI interface.
Abstract The influence of hydroxybenzoic acids (HAH n ), namely p -hydroxybenzoic acid (4-hydroxybenzoic acid, HPhbH) and protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, HProtoH 2 ), on the adsorption of europium(III) onto α,γ-Al 2 O 3 particles is studied as a function of acid concentration. After measuring the adsorption edge of the Eu(III)/α,γ-Al 2 O 3 binary system, and using the previously studied binary component system Eu(III)/HAH n —Moreau et al. (2015) Inorg. Chim. Acta 432 , 81—, and HAH n /α,γ-Al 2 O 3 —Moreau et al. (2013) Colloids Surf. A 435 , 97—, it is evidenced that HPhbH does not enhance Eu(III) adsorption onto α,γ-Al 2 O 3 in the Eu(III)/HPhbH/α,γ-Al 2 O 3 ternary system. Conversely, HProtoH 2 enhances Eu(III) adsorption onto α,γ-Al 2 O 3 in the Eu(III)/HProtoH 2 /α,γ-Al 2 O 3 ternary system. Adsorption of the acids are also found higher in the Eu(III)/acid/α,γ-Al 2 O 3 ternary systems as compared with the corresponding binary systems assessing synergetic effects. For high HPhbH concentrations, a ternary surface species involving ≡AlOH surface sites, Eu(III), and PhbH – is evidenced by time-resolved luminescence spectroscopy (TRLS). However, in the Eu(III)/HProtoH 2 /α,γ-Al 2 O 3 ternary system, chemical environment of Eu(III) is found to be very close to that in the Eu(III)/HProtoH 2 binary system. Ternary surface species could not be evidenced in the Eu(III)/HProtoH 2 /α,γ-Al 2 O 3 ternary system with TRLS because of the very short decay time of Eu(III) in the presence of protocatechuic acid.
A new compound maleimide-5-oxime was isolated, together with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, tetillapyrone, from the ethyl acetate extract of the marine sponge Haliclona baeri while tetillapyrone, nortetillapyrone, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and phenylacetic acid were isolated from the ethyl acetate extract of Haliclona cymaeformis,
In the course of our investigation on bioactive compounds from the marine sponges from the Gulf of Thailand, we have investigated the chemical constituents of the two marine sponges Haliclona baeri and Haliclona cymaeformis, collected from the coastal area of Chonburi Province and from Koh Chang, Trad Province, Eastern Thailand, respectively. Isolated from Haliclona baeri were a new maleimide-5-oxime (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), tetillapyrone (5 and 6) while Haliclona cymaeformis furnished, besides tetillapyrone (5 and 6), p-hydroxybenzaldehyde (3), phenylacetic acid (4) and nortetillapyrone (7 and 8) (Figure 1) . We have also re-examined the structures of tetillapyrone and nortetillapyrone, previously reported by our group from Tetilla japonica [11] , as well as investigated the antifungal activity of the isolated compounds. 
On the basis of our previous demonstration of the high inhibitory activity of a series of p-n-alkyloxybenzhydroxamic acids and n-alkyl esters of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid against the trypanosome alternative oxidase in a cell-free mitochondrial preparation of Trypanosoma brucei brucei, we synthesized a series of N-n-alkyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzamides for evaluation as inhibitors of this enzyme. This class of compounds was selected with the expectation of their having similar inhibitory activity to but greater solubility than the esters and hydroxamic acids noted above and greater resistance to serum hydrolases in vivo. We predicted that such properties would allow an inhibitor of the trypanosome alternative oxidase to be coadministered with glycerol as a means of providing treatment for infections by African trypanosomes. As expected, such benzamides were both more soluble and more stable, some being more active against the target enzyme than the corresponding ester. One, N-n-butyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzamide, was selected for evaluation in vivo against T. brucei brucei. When combined with glycerol, this benzamide was found to be curative. A regimen wherein 450 mg of N-n-butyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzamide per kg and 15 g of glycerol per kg were given hourly in three divided doses cured 17 of 19 mice with established T. brucei brucei infections. This combination is more active in vivo than any other designed to block simultaneously both the unique respiratory electron transport system and the anaerobic glycolytic pathways of these pathogenic protozoa.
An analysis and classification of the 2925 neutral binary organic cocrystals in the Cambridge Structural Database is reported, focusing specifically on those both showing polymorphism and containing an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API). The search was confined to molecules having only C, H, N, O, S and halogens atoms. It was found that 400 out of 2925 cocrystals can be classified as pharmaceutical cocrystals, containing at least one API, and that of those, 56 can be classified as being polymorphic cocrystals. In general, the total number of polymorphic cocrystal systems of any type stands at 125. In addition, a new polymorph of the pharmaceutical cocrystal theophylline-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1/1), C7H8N4O2·C7H6O4, is reported.
Abstract Five subjects were infused i.v. with 75 μC of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid-2 14 C(DOPAC) and urine collected at various intervals for 24 hr. The radioactive metabolic products in the urine were separated and identified. The results indicate that DOPAC is rapidly O -methylated to 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (HVA). Within 24 hr after an i.v. infusion of DOPAC-2- 14 C 40 per cent of the radioactivity was recovered in the urine as HVA. Whereas HVA was the principal metabolic product, approximately 5 per cent of the DOPAC was metabolized to the conjugate of HVA. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (DOBA) and trace amounts of vanillic acid were found, plus several unidentified metabolites.
A kinetic model was constructed to reevaluate the catecholamine metabolism in hypothetical brain homogenates. Earlier published kinetic values of recombinant membrane-bound (MB-) COMT and soluble (S-) COMT were combined with data suggesting that MB-COMT represents 70% and 30% of total COMT protein in human and rat brain, respectively. In the rat brain model L-DOPA and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were O-methylated mainly via S-COMT, while dopamine and noradrenaline, at low concentrations, were O-methylated slightly more by MB-COMT. In the human brain model dopamine and noradrenaline were metabolized primarily by MB-COMT. The ratio of meta (3-methoxy) over para (4-methoxy) product formation from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was higher for MB-COMT than S-COMT. It is suggested that MB-COMT clearly predominates the O-methylation of dopamine and noradrenaline also in vivo. Additionally, meta/para ratios could support the enrichment of either isoform of COMT in a homogenate sample.
The synthesis and study of a number of new iron(III) complexes of the ligands 3-hydroxy-2(1H)-pyridinone (3,2-opoH), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-dhbH3) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-dhbH3) are described. These complexes have the formulae [Fe(3,2-opo)2Cl]·PrnOH, K[Fe(2,3-dhbH)2(H2O)2], [Fe(2,3-dhb)(H2O)2], K[Fe-(3,4-dhbH)2(H2O)2], [Fe(3,4-dhb)(H2O)2] and K6[Fe(3,4-dhb)3]·3H2O. The complexes were characterized by elemental analyses. X-ray powder patterns, t.g.a./d.t.g. techniques, magnetic susceptibilities and spectroscopic (u.v.-vis., i.r. and variable-temperature 57Fe-Mossbauer) studies. Monomeric octahedral structures are assigned for the 1∶2 2,3-dhbH2− complex and the 1:3 3,4-dhb3− compound. Dinuclear and/or oligonuclear structures are tentatively proposed for the remaining complexes in the solid state. In [FeL(H2O)2] (L3− = 2,3-dhb3− or 3,4-dhb3−), iron(III) appears to be 5-coordinate. Both oxygens of 3,2-opo− participate in coordination, while the dihydroxybenzoato ligands exhibit various coordination modes, depending mainly on the positions of the hydroxy groups, their anionic charge and the ligand∶metal molar ratio used.
Lactoperoxidase (LPO) plays a key role in immune response against pathogens. In this study, we examined the effects of some phenolic acids on LPO. For this purpose, bovine milk LPO was purified 380.85-fold with a specific activity of 26.66 EU/mg and overall yield of 73.33% by using Amberlite CG-50 H+ resin and CNBr-activated Sepharose-4B-l-tyrosine-sulfanilamide affinity chromatography. After purification, the in vitro effects of phenolic acids (tannic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5- dihydroxybenzoic acid, chlorogenic acid, sinapic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, salicylic acid, and 3-hydroxybenzoic acid) were investigated on LPO. These phenolic acids showed potent inhibitory effect on LPO. Ki values for these phenolic acids were found as 0.0129 nM, 0.132 μM, 0.225 μM, 0.286 μM, 0.333 μM, 2.33 μM, 10.82 μM, 0.076 mM, and 0.405 mM, respectively. Sinapic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid exhibited noncompetitive inhibition; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid showed uncompetitive inhibition, and other phenolic acids showed competitive inhibition.
An electrode modified with an ionic liquid was used for the electrochemical determination of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA). Cyclic voltammetry indicated a pair of well-defined quasi-reversible redox peaks with a formal peak potential located at 586 mV (vs. the SCE). The voltammetric response to DHBA is largely improved compared to a traditional carbon paste electrode. This is attributed to a larger interface (due to the presence of an ionic liquid) with higher conductivity and inherent catalytic capability. The charge transfer coefficient, the standard rate constant and the apparent diffusion coefficient were calculated. The oxidation peak current was linearly related to the concentration of DHBA in the range 0.8–1.5 mM, and the detection limit was 0.62 µM (at 3σ). The effect of potential interferents was investigated, and the method was successfully applied to the determination of DHBA in different samples.
Thirty secondary plant substances were detected in various extracts of the leaves, fruits, stem and bark of Caraipadensifolia Mart. Phenolic compounds were preliminarily identified and quantitated by HPLC-ESI-MS and the structures of the compounds, purified by semi-preparative HPLC, were further characterized by nano-ESI-MS-MS. The presence of gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, neochlorogenic acid, chlorogenic acid, methyl gallate, p-coumaric acid quinate, epicatechin, procaynidin dimer B(2), procyanidin trimer C(1), syringic acid, 1,2,3,6-tetragallate glucoside, 1,3,4,6-tetragallate glucoside, corilagin, ellagic acid, methyl ellagic acid rhamnoside, quercetin-3-O-rhamnoside, two apigenin-C-glycosides (vitexin and isovitexin) and two luteolin-C-glycosides (orientin and isoorientin) are reported in this species for the first time. In addition, the previously reported following terpenoids, lupeol, lupenone, betulinic acid, betulin, friedelin and a previously non-characterized terpenoid in this species, friedelinol were identified and quantitated by GC-MS. A previously identified sterol was beta-sitosterol along with stigmasterol in this species for the first time. The vitamins alpha-tocopherol and gamma-tocopherol were also identified in extracts of the leaves of Caraipa species for the first time. The data shows that the botanical parts of C. densifolia Mart. has a much richer spectrum of secondary plant substances than previously reported.
Rhodotorula glutinis is a convenient source of L-phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, an enzyme that is useful as a biochemical reagent in the assay of L-phenylalanine. There have been previous descriptions of induced lyase production in complex medium where induction occurs late in exponential growth, suggesting a role in secondary metabolism such as is the case in higher plants. A higher specific activity of L-phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (sixfold higher than in complex medium) can be obtained during midexponential growth in a defined medium containing L-phenylalanine as the sole source of carbon. L-phenylalanine will also induce lyase synthesis during exponential growth in minimal medium in which L-phenylalanine is the sole source of nitrogen. The appearance of lyase in complex medium supplemented with L-phenylalanine is probably triggered fortuitously by exhaustion late in growth of a prime source of nitrogen. In this study, R. glutinis appeared to express a single lyase enzyme, regardless of whether induction was nitrogen signaled or carbon signaled. Thin-layer chromatographic analysis of ether extracts prepared fom cultures induced with doubly labeled (U-/sup 14/C; ring-4-/sup 3/H) L-phenylalanine provided evidence of a catabolic sequence containing cinnamic acid, benzoic acid, and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid as degradative intermediates. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid was not identified as a catabolic intermediate.
Protocatechuic acid (= 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 1) exhibits a significantly slow DPPH (= 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) radical-scavenging reaction compared to its esters in alcoholic solvents. The present study is aimed at the elucidation of the difference between the radical-scavenging mechanisms of protocatechuic acid and its esters in alcohol. Both protocatechuic acid (1) and its methyl ester 2 rapidly scavenged 2 equiv. of radical and were converted to the corresponding o-quinone structures 1a and 2a, respectively (Scheme). Then, a regeneration of catechol (= benzene-1,2-diol) structures occurred via a nucleophilic addition of a MeOH molecule to the o-quinones to yield alcohol adducts 1f and 2c, respectively, which can scavenge additional 2 equiv. of radical. However, the reaction of protocatechuic acid (1) beyond the formation of the o-quinone was much slower than that of its methyl ester 2. The results suggest that the slower radical-scavenging reaction of 1 compared to its esters is due to a dissociation of the electron-withdrawing carboxylic acid function to the electron-donating carboxylate ion, which decreases the electrophilicity of the o-quinone, leading to a lower susceptibility towards a nucleophilic attack by an alcohol molecule.
Objective To separate and identify the chemical constituents of the extract from the Portulaca oleracea L.Methods The compounds were separated by repeated silica gel SephadexLH-20 and ODS.The structures of these isolated compounds were identified by analysis of their spectral data(1H-NMR,13C-NMR)and chemical properties.Results Eight compounds were isolated from Portulaca oleracea L.and their structures were identified as 1H-pyrrole-2,5-dicarboxylic acid(1),5-hydroxy-2-pyridinecarboxylic acid(2),oleracein B(3),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(4),friedelin(5),4α-methyl-3β-hydroxylfriedelan(6),lupeol(7)and cyclo(L-leucinyl-L-tyrosinyl)(8).Conclusions Compounds 1,2 and 8 are isolated from Portulaca for the first time.
The chelation abilities of 2-aminophenol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid with divalent metal ions (Cu ::: 2+ ::: , ::: Be ::: 2+ ::: ,Zn ::: 2+ ::: ,Ni ::: 2+ ::: ,Co ::: 2+ ::: and Mn ::: 2+ ::: ) in binary and ternary systems at 37 ± 0.1 ::: ° ::: C and an ionic strength of ::: 0.15 mol dm ::: -3 ::: NaCl were systematically investigated by using the potentiometric titration method. ::: The chelating abilities of these complexes were obtained by processing the titration data using the ::: Hyperquad2008 program and the results are presented as stability constants. In a binary system, it ::: was shown that metal complexation involving 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (ligand D) is more stable than ::: the one with 2-aminophenol (ligand A). The stability of the formed metal complexes, both in binary and ::: ternary systems, decreases in the following order: Cu ::: 2+ ::: >Be ::: 2+ ::: >Zn ::: 2+ ::: >Ni ::: 2+ ::: >Co ::: 2+ ::: >Mn ::: 2+ ::: . The tendency of ::: these metals and ligands to form binary or ternary complexes was also evaluated and discussed by cal- ::: culating their ::: D ::: log ::: K ::: M ::: and log ::: X ::: values. In addition, the distribution of complex species in these systems ::: was graphically presented using the HySS2009 program. UV–Vis spectrophotometry was also performed ::: to qualitatively verify the protonation of these ligands and to confirm the model of the complex formed.
OBJECTIVE ::: To study the chemical constituents of the leaves of Cassia angustifolia Vahl. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Solvents extraction and various chromatographic methods were applied to separate and purify its constituents. The structures were elucidated on the basis of chemical evidence and spectral analysis. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Six compounds were obtained and identified as cholesterol (I), kampferol-3-rutinoside (II), calyxanthone (III), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-benzoic acid (IV), p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde (V), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (VI). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Six compounds ( I -VI) are obtained from this plant for the first time.
Abstract Since dietary flavonoid glycosides, including quercetin 4′-glucoside from onion, are poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, they are converted into smaller phenolic acids, which can be absorbed into the circulation. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of the major phenolic acid catabolites of quercetin 4′-glucoside, including 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) and hippuric acid, on the antioxidant activity and phase II cytoprotective enzyme induction in vitro. Both DOPAC and protocatechuic acid, having a catechol moiety, exhibited both DPPH radical scavenging and superoxide dismutase-like activities, whereas 3-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid and hippuric acid did not. DOPAC also more potently enhanced the gene expression of several phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes than the other phenolic acid catabolites. DOPAC significantly inhibited the hydrogen peroxide-induced cytotoxicity in hepatocytes with the enhancement of the total glutathione S-transferase activity. In conclusion, DOPAC may play a key role in the antioxidative potential of the colonic lumen after the ingestion of the quercetin glycoside-rich onion.
Chemiluminescence reaction between 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(DHBA)and cerium (Ⅳ)in the presence of quinine as an enhancer was investigated.A chemiluminescence method coupled to flow injection technique for the determination of DHBA was developed.The linear range for DHBA was from 8.0×10-7 to 1.0×10-4 mol/L with a detection limit of 5.0×10-7 mol/L.The relative standard deviation was 3.0%for 8.0×10-6 mol/L DHBA in 11repeated measurements.The method has been used for the determination of DHBA in water of Hanjiang river with satisfactory results.
Seven secondary metabolites, p-hydroxybenzoic acid (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), ferulic acid (3), 2,6-dimethoxy-4-hydroxy acetophenone (4), lupeol (5), 2'-O-ethylmurrangatin (6) and hibiscetin heptamethyl ether (7) were the natural products isolated from various medicinal plants. Their structures were identified by spectral comparison with previously reported data. The compounds 1-7 were screened for their tyrosinase-inhibitory activity. The compound p-hydroxybenzoic acid (1) was found to have potent activity against tyrosinase enzyme, whereas lupeol (5) showed significant activity.
Abstract Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations provide molecular level information about the interaction of organic molecules with the solid surfaces. There has been much development of this method to simulate the interaction of organic molecules with neutral surfaces but relatively less information is available regarding the interactions with charged surfaces. In this study we have developed MD model for the charged silica surface and have investigated the interactions of different benzoic acid derivatives with the charged silica surface in pure and saline water at acidic, neutral and basic pH. The investigated molecules were 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (23DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (34DHBA), 1,2,4-benzenetricarboxylic acid (BTCA) and phthalic acid (PHTHA). To simplify the analysis of results, three different simulation systems were considered. Clustering simulations showed how molecules aggregate in solution, pulling simulations provided quantitate information regarding the interactions of single molecule with the silica surface, whereas adsorption simulations focused on the adsorption of multiple molecules on the surface. In general, at pH 2–3, all investigated molecules were clustering and were attracted towards the surface. At pH 7, due to arising electrostatic repulsion, the interactions became weaker which prevented 23DHBA, 34DHBA and BTCA from clustering, however, they continued to adsorb on the silica surface. The adsorption of 23DHBA and 34DHBA decreased significantly at pH 9–10 due to electrostatic repulsion between the molecules and charged silica surface, while BTCA adsorbed slightly stronger due to interactions with ions close to the surface. PHTHA molecules behaved differently by clustering stronger and adsorbing weaker at higher pH. The results of MD simulations presented in this work by using pulling and adsorption approaches provide possibility to compare the results with experimental data.
Effects of p-hydroxybenzoic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids on incorporation of I-14C-acetate into ubiquinone, sterols and nonsaponifiable lipid fraction were studied in liver slices. Inhibition of the label incorporation into all the isoprenoid-containing compounds studied was found, when these phenolic acids were used at I mM and higher concentrations. At the same time, inhibition of the ubiquinone biosynthesis was especially distinct although concentration of the substance was increased in mixtures in presence of phenolic acids as compared with controls.
A 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid dilithium salt is prepared and proposed as an cathode additive to offset the loss of lithium. As Li+ is extracted from the salt, the organic part is taken up into the electrolyte simultaneously leaving no remaining material, leading to a safer and greener lithium-ion battery.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-dhbH3 or protocatechuic acid) is a copper chelator which has potential as an agent for the treatment of copper-overload disease (Wilson's disease). The present investigation describes the fluctuation in copper, magnesium, zinc and calcium (Cu, Mg, Zn, Ca) concentrations in tissues of guinea pigs intoxicated with Cu after the administration of 3,4-dhbH3. We investigated the efficacy of 3,4-dhbH3 to eliminate Cu from poisoned guinea pigs, as well as to assess the changes in concentrations of Zn, Ca and Mg which normally occur in the tissues of experimental animals. The results are in agreement with other experimental data when we administered drugs capable of forming complexes with metal ions. Although 3,4-dhbH3 is capable of forming in vitro complexes with Cu, it can not be used successfully for chelation therapy of Cu intoxication, but its effectiveness as a ligand for Ca, Zn and Mg mobilization is discussed.
The chelation abilities of 2-aminophenol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid with divalent metal ions (Cu , Co 2+ and Mn 2+ ) in binary and ternary systems at 37 ± 0.1°C and an ionic strength of 0.15 mol dm À3 NaCl were systematically investigated by using the potentiometric titration method.
The chelating abilities of these complexes were obtained by processing the titration data using the Hyperquad2008 program and the results are presented as stability constants. In a binary system, it was shown that metal complexation involving 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (ligand D) is more stable than the one with 2-aminophenol (ligand A). The stability of the formed metal complexes, both in binary and ternary systems, decreases in the following order:
In this study, two phenolic compounds (2-aminophenol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) were investigated for their potential as chelating agents. Both phenolics are known to possess different binding sites that may play important roles in their chelating activity. 2-Aminophenol contains neighboring N and O donor atoms in the aromatic ring, which allow the compound to form stable fivemembered-ring complexes with metal ions [14] . The compound was also found to have antibacterial activity against gram-negative Bacillus [15, 16] . Its administration into animals also showed no toxic effects and the compound was excreted in conjugation with both sulfuric acid and glucuronic acid [17] . Another potential chelator, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, was reported to have chemoprevention activity against carcinogenesis [18] [19] [20] . This compound was found to be effective in inhibiting colon, skin and liver cancers, either in the initiation phase or in the promotion/progression of carcinogenesis. It also shows antioxidant activity due to the occurrence of a carboxylic group and two adjacent hydroxyl groups. These functional groups may act as inhibitors of free radical reactions by forming complexes with transition metal ions (Cu 2+ and Fe 2+ ) and thus may lower the activity of enzymes that catalyze the reactions of free radical formation [21, 22] . In order to gain an initial understanding and basic information on metal chelation for further research in chelation therapy, this study investigated the complexation of 2-aminophenol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid with divalent metal ions (Mn  2+ , Co  2+ , Ni   2+ , Cu
Determination of enzyme activities by product formation. Cell extracts were incubated under aeration with various substrates supplied at an initial concentration of 1.0 mM. Fifty-microliter samples were taken 0, 0.5, 1, 3, 5, and 10 min after the addition of the substrate. Samples were acidified with 0.1 volume of 1 N phosphoric acid to stop the reaction. Samples were stored on ice for 10 to 20 min, centrifuged at 21,000 ϫ g for 30 min in a bench-top centrifuge at 4°C and frozen at Ϫ20°C. Control assays were performed with boiled cell extracts (100°C for 15 min) or with Tris buffer. All samples were analyzed by HPLC using a C-18 Nucleosil 100-column HPLC column (125 ϫ 3 mm) (Macherey-Nagel, Oensingen, Switzerland) and an HPLC instrument equipped with a diode array detector and a mass detector run in the atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) mode with positive ionization (1100 series; Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif.). A 0.1% phosphoric acid and methanol (97.5:2.5) mix was used as the eluent at a flow rate of 1.0 ml/min. P-OHPA, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid had retention times of 6.8, 3.6, 1.1, 4.1, and 3.2 min, respectively. Standards were acidified with 0.1 N hydrochloric acid and treated in the same way as assay samples for HPLC analysis.
The vanadium (IV) complexes of catechol,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and naphthalene-2,3-diol, in water or D2O solution, have been studied by 1H electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) spectroscopy at 110 K. The spectra show prominent peaks which are due to ring protons adjacent to metal-bound phenolate groups, together with resonances which have contributions form more distant protons. On the whole, the 1H ENDOR pattern of the studied complexes may be satisfactorily assigned using the structural data for potassium bis (catecholato)oxovanadate(IV) and thus may be considered as diagnostic of vanadium(IV)–phenolate co-ordination. The presence of outer-sphere water molecules has also been detected in aqueous solution.
Naproxen is a one of the most popular non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) entering the environment as a result of high consumption. For this reason, there is an emerging need to recognize mechanisms of its degradation and enzymes engaged in this process. Planococcus sp. S5 is a gram positive strain able to degrade naproxen in monosubstrate culture (27%). However, naproxen is not a sufficient growth substrate for this strain. In the presence of benzoate, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or vanillic acid as growth substrates, the degradation of 21.5%, 71.71%, 14.75% and 8.16% of naproxen was observed respectively. It was shown that the activity of monooxygenase, hydroxyquinol 1,2-dioxygenase, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase and protocatechuate 4,5-dioxyegnase in strain S5 was induced after growth of the strain with naproxen and 4-hydroxybenzoate. Moreover, in the presence of naproxen activity of gentisate 1,2-dioxygenase, enzyme engaged in 4-hydroxybenzoate metabolism, was completely inhibited. The obtained results suggest that monooxygenase and hydroxyquinol 1,2-dioxygenase are the main enzymes in naproxen degradation by Planococcus sp. S5.
Verproside, a catalpol derivative iridoid glycoside isolated from Pseudolysimachion rotundum var. subintegrum, is a biologically active compound with anti-inflammatory, antinociceptic, antioxidant, and anti-asthmatic properties. Twenty-one metabolites were identified in bile and urine samples obtained after intravenous administration of verproside in rats using liquid chromatography-quadrupole Orbitrap mass spectrometry. Verproside was metabolized by O-methylation, glucuronidation, sulfation, and hydrolysis to verproside glucuronides (M1 and M2), verproside sulfates (M3 and M4), picroside II (M5), M5 glucuronide (M7), M5 sulfate (M9), isovanilloylcatalpol (M6), M6 glucuronide (M8), M6 sulfate (M10), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (M11), M11 glucuronide (M12), M11 sulfates (M13 and M14), 3-methyoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (M15), M15 glucuronides (M17 and M18), M15 sulfate (M20), 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid (M16), M16 glucuronide (M19), and M16 sulfate (M21). Incubation of verproside with rat hepatocytes resulted in thirteen metabolites (M1–M11, M13, and M14). Verproside sulfate, M4 was a major metabolite in rat hepatocytes. After intravenous administration of verproside, the drug was recovered in bile (0.77% of dose) and urine (4.48% of dose), and O-methylation of verproside to picroside II (M5) and isovanilloylcatalpol (M6) followed by glucuronidation and sulfation was identified as major metabolic pathways compared to glucuronidation and sulfation of verproside in rats.
When 2,3- or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid are added to growth media, they are converted to a characteristic brown pigment by Cryptococcus neoformans. This pigment formation has hitherto been encountered only when this microorganism was cultivated on media containing Guizotia abyssinica seed. This phenomenon can be used for differentiating Cryptococcus neoformans from Candida albicans. Possible precursors of these o-diphenols (quinic acid, aromatic monohydroxy acids, or tyrosine) do not give rise to the brown pigmentation.
Use of a disinfectant to inactivate infectious prions on surfaces, instruments and in liquids, wherein the disinfectant is a synergistically effective mixture of one or more hydroxybenzoic acids (A) and one or more phenols (B), in combination with alkyl sulfonates, alkyl sulfates and / or alkyl aryl sulfonic acid and / or alkyl aryl sulphonates and / or alkylaryl ether with 1-3 EO-groups and / or alkyl ether sulfates having 1-3 EO-groups, their sodium, potassium and ammonium salts, with primary or branched chains of the length C wherein the hydroxy benzoic acids are selected from 2-hydroxybenzoic, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3 5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3,4-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxy benzoic acid, or mixtures thereof, wherein the phenols are selected from phenol, 2-iso-propyl-5-methylphenol, 2 -Methylphenol, 3-methyl phenol, 4-methylphenol, hexylresorcinol, 2-phenylphenol, 3-methyl-4-chlorophenol, 3,5-dimethyl-4-chlorophenol, 2-benzyl-4-chlorophenol, mono-, di- and trihalogenated phenols or mixtures thereof, and wherein the weight ratio of the hydroxybenzoic acids (A) to the phenols (B) is between 10:90 and 90:10.
Ten oxidized, oxygenated and dimeric forms of protocatechuic acid (PCA, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-DHBA) have been studied using DFT calculations (at the B3LYP/TZVP level of theory) and their structural and spectroscopic parameters (electronic transitions, NMR resonances) have been calculated. Combination with experimental results (under anaerobic or aerobic environment) determines the conditions for the existence of protonated, fully deprotonate and/or oxygenated semiquinones of PCA. Several energy optimized conformers containing manganese-(PCA-semiquinones) and water or/and peroxo-groups have been drawn (species 11-16) and their structural and spectroscopic properties have been calculated at the same level of theory. Experimental parallel to the theoretical results provide evidence for the existence of Mn(II)- and Mn(III)-[PCA-semiquinone] as well the conditions of dioxygen activation. Two of the blue solids (17 and 18) isolated from these solutions, have been characterized. Elemental analyzes, TGA, IR and ESR spectra support the formulation Mn(2)(PCA)(2)(O(2))(OH)(2)(AcO)(ClO(4))(2)(H(2)O)(3) (17), and Mn(2)(PCA)(2)(O(2))(2)(OH)(2)(AcO)H(2)O (18). Their ESR spectra, in solution (blue solutions), are almost identical and indicative of Mn(IV) existence. From the whole investigation, the activation of dioxygen by the PCA, its relocation on manganese and the oxidation of the metal ion have been provided.
Three types of Korean black raspberry wine were produced via alcoholic fermentation from juice, juice–pulp, and juice–pulp–seed, respectively. These wines were compared in terms of their anti-inflammatory activities and polyphenol contents. The total content of polyphenol compounds in wines was increased by 22.4% after supplementation with pulp and by 56.7% after supplementation with both pulp and seed. The reduction rate of NO evolution was highest in the order juice–pulp–seed wine, juice–pulp wine, and juice wine. Addition of the juice–pulp–seed wine at a level of 62.5–500 mg/L decreased the NO evolution rate by 40.5–94.2%. Eight fractions were obtained from juice–pulp–seed wine via ethyl acetate extraction and silica gel chromatography. Of these, the AF fraction, which exhibited the highest in vitro anti-inflammatory activity, exerted inhibitory effects on ear edema, writhing response, and vein membrane vascular permeability in mice. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid accounted for 37.6% of the total polyphenol...
Abstract Polyphenols are cleaved by bacterial enzymes to form phenolic acid metabolites in the colon, where they may exert physiologic effects. For norathyriol, the aglycone of mangiferin, one of the major phenolic compounds present in Cyclopia genistoides (honeybush), a further bacterial degradation is likely; but knowledge of the importance of this metabolic process is very limited. Based on a hypothesized cleavage of the middle ring of norathyriol, this study was designed to determine phenolic cleavage products in the feces of pigs fed an extract of C genistoides. Pigs received 74 mg mangiferin per kilogram of body weight daily for 11 days; feces fractions were collected on day 11 and on the first 2 days after the last intake of extract. Several phenolic acids were detected in the feces samples, including 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid; 4-hydroxybenzoic acid; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid; 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid; 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid); and phloroglucinol. However, in vivo formation was likely only for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid; 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid; and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid because these were not present in the blank feces, in the animals' normal diet, or in the C genistoides extract. The fact that these amounts were very low suggests further degradation of the metabolites by intestinal microflora or absorption of the cleavage products by the colon.
Abstract: Verproside, a catalpol derivative iridoid glycoside isolated from Pseudolysimachion rotundum var. subintegrum, is a biologically active compound with anti-inflammatory, antinociceptic, antioxidant, and anti-asthmatic properties. Twenty-one metabolites were identified in bile and urine samples obtained after intravenous administration of verproside in rats using liquid chromatography-quadrupole Orbitrap mass spectrometry. Verproside was metabolized by O-methylation, glucuronidation, sulfation, and hydrolysis to verproside glucuronides (M1 and M2), verproside sulfates (M3 and M4), picroside II (M5), M5 glucuronide (M7), M5 sulfate (M9), isovanilloylcatalpol (M6), M6 glucuronide (M8), M6 sulfate (M10), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (M11), M11 glucuronide (M12), M11 sulfates (M13 and M14), 3-methyoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (M15), M15 glucuronides (M17 and M18), M15 sulfate (M20), 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid (M16), M16 glucuronide (M19), and M16 sulfate (M21). Incubation of verproside with rat hepatocytes resulted in thirteen metabolites (M1-M11, M13, and M14). Verproside sulfate, M4 was a major metabolite in rat hepatocytes. After intravenous administration of verproside, the drug was recovered in bile (0.77% of dose) and urine (4.48% of dose), and O-methylation of verproside to picroside II (M5) and isovanilloylcatalpol (M6) followed
Remarkable aspects of the crystallization of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid, PCA) from water as described by R. W. Wood (Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 197, 283-294 (1949)) are confirmed. This compound crystallizes as the monohydrate in four different polymorphic phases: three are triclinic (oblique needles, needles and rhombs) and belong to one subgroup, while the fourth, monoclinic, phase constitutes a separate subgroup. It is probable that the triclinic rhombs are the stable phase at 25 $^\circ$C, with the other phases monotropically related to it. Crystal data for the triclinic needles are a = 9.926(9), b = 9.532(9), c = 8.131(8) $\overset{\circ}{\mathrm A}$, $\alpha$ = 100.8(1), $\beta$ = 90.7(1), $\gamma$ = 102.4(1)$^\circ$, Z = 4, space group P1; and for the triclinic rhombs a = 12.693(9), b = 8.011(6), c = 8.121(6)$\overset{\circ}{\mathrm A}$, $\alpha$ = 72.2(1), $\beta$ = 108.5(1), $\gamma$ = 103.2(1)$^\circ$, Z = 4, space group P1. Both crystals can be described in terms of a unit cell containing eight formula units, with dimensions a $\approx$ 12.7, b $\approx$ 9.5, c $\approx$ 13.0 $\overset{\circ}{\mathrm A}, \alpha \approx 88$, $\beta \approx$ 101, $\gamma \approx$ 107$^\circ$; the space group for the triclinic needles is B$\overline{1}$ and for the triclinic rhombs A$\overline{1}$. Crystal structure analyses (four-circle diffractometer, MoK$\alpha$) of these two phases (triclinic needles, 1287 reflexions used in the final refinement cycle, R$\_F$ = 11.1%; triclinic rhombs, 1761 reflexions, R$\_F$ = 6.9%) show that both contain essentially similar layer pairs of PCA and H$\_2$O molecules, with hydrogen bonding both within each layer and, apparently, between them; however, the stacking of the layer pairs in the two phases differs. The crystals of the oblique needles are so small and unstable to stress that crystal structure analysis was not possible. The crystal structure of the monoclinic needles (a = 12.32(1), b = 3.64(1), c = 17.60(2) $\overset{\circ}{\mathrm A}, \beta$ = 107.7(2)$^\circ$, Z = 4, space group P2$\_1$/n) was determined (CuK$\alpha$, 787 reflexions, R$\_F$ = 6.8%); the overall molecular arrangement differs from that in the triclinic phases in an absence of PCA$\cdot$H$\_2$O layers although there are distinct resemblances between the hydrogen bonding schemes. The phase transition 'oblique needles $\rightarrow$ triclinic needles' is 'single crystal to single crystal' and is a topotaxic transition. The phase transition 'triclinic needles $\rightarrow$ triclinic rhombs' is 'single crystal to oriented polycrystal' and is described as partially topotaxic, there being preservation of layer arrangement but not of complete three-dimensional orientation.
The antioxidant substance in black onion was identified. The assays that used 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) and 2,2`-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazo line-6-sulphonic acid) () radicals showed that the ethyl acetate fraction of black onion methanol extract had a higher level of radical-scavenging activity than the other fractions. Two antioxidative compounds were purified and isolated from the ethyl acetate fraction via column chromatographies of silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 using the guided DPPH radical-scavenging assay. The isolated compounds were identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) and quercetin (2) based on mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance. The isolated compounds showed a high level of DPPH and ABTS+ radical-scavenging activity. Compound 2 had a higher level of radical-scavenging activity than 1.
The mechanism of iron acquisition was studied in nitrogen-fixing Azomonas macrocytogenes. Spent solid agar plating medium samples from Fe-deficient and Fe-sufficient cultures were subjected to the high voltage paper electrophoresis siderophore assay. A yellow-green fluorescent peptide was elicited only under conditions of iron deficiency, whereas a novel dark blue fluorescent, Arnowpositive phenolic compound was detected under both Fe-deficient and Fe-sufficient conditions. Both compounds formed colored complexes with ferric iron. SDS-PAGE analysis of outer envelope protein preparations revealed the hyperproduction of an 83 kDa protein under iron-limiting conditions. Chemical analysis indicated that the phenolate was 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), a compound previously unreported as an extracellular product of a diazotroph.
Objective To study the chemical constituents from leaves of Camellia pitardii Coh.St..Methods The compounds were isolated by chromatography on silica gel column,Sephadex LH-20 and identified on the basis of physico-chemical constants and spectral analysis.Results Eleven compounds were isolated and identified as quercetin(1),rutin(2),quercetin-3-O-α-D-arabinofurnoside(3),quercetin-3-O-β-D-galactopyranoside(4),quercetin-3-O-β-D-rhamnoside(5),kaempferol(6),kaempferol-3-O-[2″,6″-di-(E)-p-coumaroyl]-β-D-glucopyranoside(7),lupeol(8),oleanolic acid(9),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(10),ethyl gallate(11).Conclusions Compounds 111 are all isolated from leaves of Camellia pitardii Coh.St.for the first time.Compound 7 is isolated from Camellia genus plants for the first time.
Abstract Solubility data of some phenolic compounds of industrial interest, such as protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), chrysin (5,7-dihydroxyflavone) and sinapic acid (3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxycinnamic acid) in supercritical carbon dioxide were determined at pressures of 200, 300 and 400 bar and temperatures of 40, 50 and 60 °C. Experimental data were correlated with semi-empirical Chrastil model and thermodynamic modeling using the Peng–Robinson equation of state with classical mixing rule. The critical properties, acentric factor, and vapor pressure of these compounds were estimated by group contribution methods. The solubility values followed a similar tendency, with higher solubility with increasing temperature and pressure, and no crossover pressure in the range studied. However, a crossover pressure around 150 bar was observed when extrapolating the solubility data by the Chrastil equation, which is in agreement with values reported in the literature for phenolic compounds, thereby indicating the consistency of the solubility experimental data.
This study was conducted to evaluate the inhibitory potential of P. harmala leaf, stem and root extract on germination and growth of Avena fatua L. and Convolvulus arvensis L., as well as identification of the phytotoxic substances responsible for this activity. According to our results, the degree of toxicity of different P. harmala plant parts can be arranged in the following order: leaves > stems > roots. The two test species differed in their sensitivity to P. harmala extracts. Inhibitory effect on shoot length and seedling dry weight was more pronounced in C. arvensis, whereas higher reduction in germination, root length and total chlorophyll content occurred in A. fatua. A significant amount of water-soluble phenolic acids were found in P. harmala plant extracts. Total phenolic acids content was higher in leaf extracts when compared to that of stem or root extracts. Seven phenolic acids including gallic acid, vanillic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, syringic acid and ferulic acid were found in P. harmala leaf extracts. On the other hand, we identified four phenolic acids from stem (galllic acid, vanillic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and caffeic acid) and root (galllic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, syringic acid and cinnamic acid) extracts. The greater number of growth inhibitors detected in the leaves might explain the stronger inhibitory activity. Overall, our results suggest that P. harmala might be used as a natural herbicide for weed control and consequently reduce dependence on synthetic herbicides.
Ultra performance liquid chromatography/quadrupole-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC/Q-TOF MS) technique combined with Metabolynx™ software was used for analysis of the metabolites of quercitrin by the isolated human intestinal bacteria from the human feces. Four metabolites of quercitrin were detected and tentatively identified based on the characteristics of their protonated ions. The metabolites were metabolized by four main metabolic pathways including hydroxylation, demethylation, deglycosylation and ring-cleavage. Quercitrin was metabolized to the hydroxyquercitrin and desmethylquercitrin by the majority of the isolated intestinal bacteria such as Bacteroides sp. 54, and was degraded to the deglycosylated product quercetin by rhamnosidase and further ring-cleavage metabolite 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid by the minority of the isolated bacteria such as Bacteroides sp. 45. The metabolic pathways and most of the metabolites of quercitrin were reported for the first time.
Although hydroxyl radical (•OH) formation has been implicated in the pathophysiological changes of ischemic stroke, •OH production in the core and penumbra regions is not clear. It is extremely important to distinguish penumbra from ischemic core in focal cerebral ischemia studies, because the penumbra contains viable tissue, which can be salvaged by appropriate treatment. This study evaluated •OH production in both core and penumbra regions of ischemic striatum during ischemia and reperfusion. Microdialysis probes were placed in striatal tissue of rats subjected to the middle cerebral artery occlusion model of ischemic stroke. The •OH-trapping agent 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) was administered by both i.v. and probe infusion. Dialysate levels of the 4-HBA oxidation products, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), were determined by HPLC-ECD. After microdialysis probe delivery of 4-HBA, •OH production was significantly increased in the striatal core during both ischemia and reperfusion. Penumbra •OH production increased only during reperfusion. Alterations of 3,4-DHBA concentration in dialysate following i.v. 4-HBA administration were likely related to alterations in tissue blood flow. The findings were confirmed by a greater oxidation of dihydroethidium in the ischemic core than in the penumbra as determined by fluorescent microscopy. The findings of •OH production in ischemic striatum are the opposite of those reported for ischemic cortex and suggest critical regional variations in •OH production that may have significant clinical implications in the treatment of ischemic stroke. © 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Vitex negundo Linn (family: Verbenaceae) is widely used in the indigenous system of medicine in India. The roots and leaves of the plant are used as expectorant, febrifuge, vermifuge tonic, and aromatic [1] . The plant is reported to have anti-inflammatory and antiarthritic properties [2] . A variety of constituents have been reported from this plant. From the leaves Ghosh and Krishna isolated glucononitol, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 5-hydroxyisophthalic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid along with two glucosides and an amorphous alkaloid [3] . In the essential oil of leaves -pinene, camphene, citral, and -caryophyllene have been reported [4] .
To determine the substrate range capability of Sphingomonas paucimobilis strain EPA505, a number of aromatic compounds were tested as potential growth substrates. Strain EPA505 grew on phenanthrene, naphthalene, fluoranthene, toluene, benzoic acid, 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene, anthracene, 2-hydroxy-3-naphthoic acid and 1-hydroxy- 2-naphthoic acid, salicylic acid, and catechol. Strain EPA505 was unable to grow on coumarine 3-carboxylic acid, naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, acenaphthene, chrysene, pyrene, benzo[b]fluoranthene, and fluorene. Catabolic products were not detected or identified when the bacterium was incubated with coumarine 3-carboxylic acid, naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, acenaphthene, chrysene, or benzo[b]fluoranthene. Dihydroxypyrene, the ortho ring fission product of pyrene, and 10-hydroxy-1- phenanthroic acid were detected when the bacterium was incubated with pyrene. The open rings of benzo[b]fluoranthene, hydroxyacephenanthroic acid, hydroxyacephenanthrene, and phenanthrene anhydride, catabolites of benzo[b]fluoranthene degradation, were detected with Tn5 mutants of EPA505. With strain EPA505, both 9-fluorenone and an open ring fission product accumulated during incubation with fluorene. Other catabolites beyond the open ring of fluorene were detected, specifically dihydroxyfluorene, hydroxy-9-fluorenone, dihydroxy-9-fluorenone, hydroxyindane, and a putative glutathione-conjugated benzylanhydride. Benzylanhydride appeared to be a final end product of fluorene degradation by strain EPA505.
Abstract The redox chemistry of the ligand 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) has been studied in dimethylsulphoxide and the conditions for the formation of the corresponding semiquinone and quinone have been determined. The manganese(II) and manganese(III) complexes with the different forms of this ligand have been characterized by cyclic voltammetry, UV-vis spectroscopy and magnetic susceptibility measurements. Neither the neutral nor the monoanionic form of the ligand show the formation of complexes with the metal ions. The dianion can be oxidized electrochemically to the corresponding semiquinone, at a more positive potential due to the presence of a deactivating group, forming a “peroxo-type” dimer. The subsequent oxidation of this species generates the corresponding quinone. The dianion and the semiquinone forms of the ligand produce manganese(II) and manganese(III) complexes with 1:2 stoichiometry, which is favoured by the ortho position of the hydroxide groups. These results may be relevant for the development of models for biological systems.
Abstract B3LYP/6-31++G(d) method was used for the structural study of 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4,5-THBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA). Calculated structures agree with available X-ray experimental data within 2%. The phenolic O H bond dissociation enthalpy (BDE) of all sites in each benzoic acid were determined and compared with those of phenol (for 4-HBA) and catechol (for 3,4-DHBA). The consistency between the calculated values and experimental ones are within 5.4% and 9.2%, respectively, for 4-HBA and 3,4-DHBA. The reactions of benzoic acids with O 2 - and OH radicals were studied and it turns out that benzoic acids react differently with both radicals. We have shown that the reaction of hydroxybenzoic acids with the hydroxyl radical was governed by a phenolic hydrogen (H + + e − ) transfer from the acid to the radical, while for the superoxide radical, the reaction is governed by a proton (H + ) transfer from the acid to the radical. The first reaction is evidenced by the delocalization of the radical on the entire quinone moiety, and the second reaction is evidenced by the negative NBO charge on the phenoxide moiety as well as the localization of the radical on the hydroperoxy (O 2 H) moiety.
OBJECTIVE ::: The aim of this investigation was to study the variation of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in the human liver, duodenal mucosa and renal cortex, and to investigate the inhibition of COMT by entacapone and tolcapone. This study included 87 samples of human liver, 94 samples of the duodenum and 72 samples of the renal cortex. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: The activity of COMT was measured with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (242 micromol x l(-1)), the methyl acceptor substrate, and adenosyl-L-methionine (44 micromol x l(-1)), the methyl donor substrate. The hepatic activity of COMT activity was significantly higher in men than in women, whereas it was not sex-dependent in the duodenum or renal cortex. The activity of COMT varied 4.4-fold in the liver of men, 2.6-fold in the duodenum and 5.3-fold in the renal cortex. The median estimates of COMT activity were 577, 499, 103 and 159 pmol x min(-1) x mg(-1) in the liver of men and women, in the duodenum and in the renal cortex, respectively. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Entacapone and tolcapone were powerful inhibitors of COMT and their IC50 estimates were 151 and 773 nM (P = 0.008), respectively, in the liver; consistent results were obtained with the other tissues.
Abstract The experimental behavior of the ferroin-catalyzed Belousov-Zhabotinskii (BZ)-type reaction with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as organic substrate has been investigated. It was found that the system displays two types of temporal oscillations depending on the initial concentration of bromide. When [Br − ] is very high, damped high-frequency oscillations appear. When [Br − ] is very low, low-frequency oscillations of the normal type are obtained. At moderate concentrations of bromide, both high-frequency and low-frequency oscillations can be monitored with a bromide ion selective electrode. The mechanism of the dual-frequency oscillation is discussed.
Protocatechuic acid, or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, is produced by both soil and marine bacteria in the free form and as the iron binding component of the siderophore petrobactin. The soil bacterium, Bacillus thuringiensis kurstaki ATCC 33679, contains the asb operon, but does not produce petrobactin. Iron restriction resulted in diminished B. thuringiensis kurstaki ATCC 33679 growth and the production of catechol(s). The gene product responsible for protocatechuic acid (asbF) and its receptor (fatB) were expressed during stationary phase growth. Gene expression varied with growth temperature, with optimum levels occurring well below the Bacillus anthracis virulence temperature of 37 °C. Regulation of protocatechuic acid suggests a possible role for this compound during soil growth cycles.
Gossypium hirsutum L. (Cotton) produces fiber and cottonseed, two economically important commodities. Cottonseed weights more than fiber but values for 20% of the crop 1 . Cottonseed is classified as glanded or glandless according to the presence or absence of pigmented gossypol glands 2,3 . Glanded cottonseed contains bioactive compounds including gossypol 4 , gallic acid 5 , 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid 5 , bioactive peptides 6 , and flavonol glycosides 5 . Glandless cottonseed also contains many bioactive chemicals including the antidepressant compound quercetin 7 . These bioactive components could be targeted for increasing the value of cottonseed with health promotion and disease prevention potentials.
Abstract: Protocatechuic acid, or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, is produced by both soil and marine bacteria in the free form and as the iron binding component of the siderophore petrobactin. The soil bacterium, Bacillus thuringiensis kurstaki ATCC 33679, contains the asb operon, but does not produce petrobactin. Iron restriction resulted in diminished B. thuringiensis kurstaki ATCC 33679 growth and the production of catechol(s). The gene product responsible for protocatechuic acid (asbF) and its receptor (fatB) were expressed during stationary phase growth. Gene expression varied with growth temperature, with optimum levels occurring well below the Bacillus anthracis virulence temperature of 37 °C. Regulation of protocatechuic acid suggests a possible role for this compound during soil growth cycles.
Two new pyranocoumarin diastereoisomers, calopolyanolides C (1) and D (2), were isolated from the ethanolic extract of the seeds of Calophyllum polyanthum, along with calopolyanolide A (3), calopolyanolide B (4), calanolide E2 (5), 5,7,3',4'-tetrahydroxyisoflavone (6), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (7), 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (8), 2-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid (9), beta-sitosterol (10), beta-daucosterol (11), 3,5-dihydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid (12), 3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid (13), and ursolic acid (14). Their structures were determined by MS, UV, and IR data and HMQC, HMBC, and NOESY experiments or by comparing them with authentic samples. X-ray crystallographic analysis confirmed the structure and relative configuration of 1.
The chromatographic behavior of quinones derived from the oxidation of dopamine and N-acetyldopamine has been studied using liquid chromatography (LC) with both a diode array detector and an electrochemical detector that has parallel dual working electrodes. When stainless steel columns are used, an anodic peak for the oxidation of the catecholamine is observed at the same retention time as a cathodic peak for the reduction of the catecholamine quinone. In addition, the anodic peak exhibits a tail that extends to a second anodic peak for the catecholamine. The latter peak occurs at the normal retention time of the catecholamine. The origin of this phenomenon has been studied and metallic iron in the stainless steel components of the LC system has been found to reduce the quinones to their corresponding catecholamines. The simultaneous appearance of a cathodic peak for the reduction of catecholamine quinone and an anodic peak for the oxidation of the corresponding catecholamine occurs when metallic iron in the exit frit reduces some of the quinones as the latter exits the column. This phenomenon is designated as the "concurrent anodic-cathodic response." It is also observed for quinones of of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and probably occurs with o- or p-quinones of other dihydroxyphenyl compounds. The use of nonferrous components in LC systems is recommended to eliminate possible on-column reduction of quinones.
In the present paper, an on-line preconcentration procedure for determination of cadmium, copper and zinc by thermospray flame furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (TS-FF-AAS) is proposed. Amberlite XAD-4 functionalized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (XAD4-DHB) packed in a minicolumn was used as sorbent material. The metals were retained on the XAD-DHB resin, from which it could be eluted directly to the thermospray flame furnace system. The detection limits were 28 (Cd), 100 (Cu) and 77 ng L−1 (Zn) for 60 s preconcentration time, at a sample flow rate of 7.0 mL min−1. Enrichment factors were 102, 91 and 62, for cadmium, copper and zinc, respectively. The procedure has been applied successfully to metal determination in biological standard reference materials.
The sol-gel molecularly imprinted films modified glassy carbon electrode was prepared by electrodeposition of tetramethoxysilane(TMOS) and phenyltrimethoxysilane(PTMOS) with chronoamperometry in the presence of template molecules 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3,4-DHBA) followed by extraction with ethanol.The modified electrode could successfully avoid the polymerization of oxidized 3,4-DHBA and the interference of 2,4-DHBA.A linear concentration response curve was obtained from 1.0 × 10-5 mol·L-1 to 8.0×10-4 mol·L-1,with the detected concentration limit of 5.0 × 10-6 mol·L-1.
The antioxidative properties of 0.02 % 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (3,4-DHPAA) were studied during bulk phase autoxidation of triacylglycerols of lard (TGL) at ambient temperature. The antioxidant effectiveness, strength and activity of 3,4-DHPAA were compared with those for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic and caffeic acids. The activity of the investigated antioxidants at ambient temperature increased in the following order: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid < caffeic acid < 3,4-DHPAA, whereas at 100 °C it increased as follow: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid < 3,4-DHPAA < caffeic acid. The data showed that 3,4-orthodiphenols with a saturated side chain in their molecules demonstrated greater activity at ambient and moderately high temperatures than do caffeic acid possessing a double bond in the side chain conjugated with the behzene ring. The differences in the antioxidative behaviour of 3,4-orthodiphenolic acids at ambient temperature and at 100 °C were discussed in relation to the mechanism of their inhibiting action.
The reductive release of ferritin iron by several naturally occurring o-diphenols was studied. The initial rate of iron release was quantified by spectrophotometric measurement of the Fe(ferrozine)3(2+) complex, which absorbs maximally at 562 nm. The initial rate of iron release was dependent upon o-diphenol concentration, but not on the concentration of the chromophoric chelating agent, ferrozine, Stoichiometric measurements resulted in a ratio of 2Fe(II) released per molecule of o-diphenol. The series of o-diphenols studied included, caffeic acid, chlorogenic acid, dihydrocaffeic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and several analogs. These reductants represent an oxidation reduction potential range of 0.38 volts. A direct correlation between reducing power of the o-diphenols and rate of ferritin iron release was observed. Superoxide dismutase, catalase, mannitol, or general radical traps had no effect on the rate of iron removal; however, EDTA and oxalate inhibited iron release. A mechanism for ferritin iron reduction and release by o-diphenols consistent with the experimental observations is discussed.
The aim of the present study was to elucidate the protective properties of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA) isolated from Cladophora wrightiana Harvey (a green alga) against ultraviolet B (UVB)-induced damage to human HaCaT keratinocytes. DBA exhibited scavenging actions against the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical, the superoxide anion, and the hydroxyl radical. Furthermore, DBA decreased the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species generated by hydrogen peroxide or UVB treatment of the cells. DBA also decreased the UVB-augmented levels of phospho-histone H2A.X and the extent of comet tail formation, which are both indications of DNA damage. In addition, the compound safeguarded keratinocytes from UVB-induced injury by reversing the production of apoptotic bodies, overturning the disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential, increasing the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein, B-cell lymphoma 2, and decreasing the expression of the pro-apoptotic proteins, Bcl-2-associated X and cleaved caspase-3. Taken together, these results demonstrate that DBA isolated from a green alga protects human keratinocytes against UVB-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis.
The oxidation of natural flavonoid luteolin in aqueous solution is studied by electrochemical methods, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), spectroelectrochemistry and separation techniques HPLC-DAD and HPLC–MS/MS. The number of electrons involved in the oxidation of luteolin depends on the presence of its dissociation forms in solution. The study explains the differences in the number of electrons presented in the literature. The overall one electron oxidation mechanism of luteolin in alkaline solution is explained by the comproportionation reaction of resulting quinone, despite the fact that quinone is formed by two electron oxidation. Then a hydroxylation takes place. The EPR spectroelectrochemical study of the semiquinone radical anion formation as well as of the reaction steps following the electron transfer during the oxidation is presented. The novelty of this contribution consists in the additional temperature controlled semi-quantitative in situ EPR spectroelectrochemical experiment of the flavonoid oxidation. The data acquired by temperature controlled in situ EPR spectroelectrochemistry supports the comproportionation/disproportionation equilibria as well as the oxidative decomposition of luteolin and shows that the formation of a pi-dimer is less probable. The oxidation products hydroxy-luteolin and 3,5-dihydroxy-2-(2-oxoacetyl)phenyl-3,4-dihydroxybenzoate are not stable under ambient conditions and decompose to low molecular hydroxycompounds such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5,7-trihydroxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one.
Chemical investigation of Imperata cylindrica led to the isolation of thirteen compounds using various chromatographic techniques.The structure of these compounds were identified as: three phenylpropanoids,1-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl)-1,2,3-propanetriol(1),1-O-p-coumaroylglycerol(2),4-methoxy-5-methyl coumarin-7-O-β-D-glucopyranoside(3);four organic acids,4-hydroxybenzene carboxylic acid(4),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(5),vanillic acid(6),3,4-dihydroxybutyric acid(7);one phenolic compound,salicin(8);and five triterpenes,namely,arundoin(9),cylindrin(10),fernenol(11),simiarenol(12),glutinone(13)by their physicochemical properties and spectral data analysis.Among them,compounds 1-8 were isolated from the genus Imperata for the first time.
Abstract Partially purified rat liver catechol- O -methyltransferase (COMT) is inhibited by lanthanum, and by the lanthanides, neodymium and europium. The 50 per cent inhibitory concentrations are 3 × 10 −6 , 1.2 × 10 −6 , and 8.5 × 10 −7 M for La 3+ , Nd 3+ and Eu 3+ respectively. The inhibition of COMT by these ions is reversible. Lineweaver-Burk plots of the results of experiments in which the enzyme activity was measured in the presence of varying concentrations of magnesium, an activator of COMT, and different concentrations of La 3+ , Nd 3+ and Eu 3+ were compatible with non-competitive or “mixed” inhibition. Double reciprocal plots of the results of experiments in which COMT activity was determined in the presence of different concentrations of La 3+ and varying quantities of the two co-substrates for the reaction, S -adenosyl-1-methionine and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, were also compatible with non-competitive or “mixed inhibition”. The characteristics of the inhibition of rat liver COMT by La 3+ , Nd 3+ and Eu 3+ are similar to those of the inhibition of COMT by Ca 2+ . However, lanthanum, neodymium and europium are two to three orders of magnitude more potent inhibitors of COMT than is calcium.
o-Diphenoloxidase from potato tubers is inactivated in the course of the oxidation reaction of o-diphenols at the level of the enzyme-substrate complex. At 25 degrees C of the reaction mixture the enzyme inactivation rate constants (Kin) in oxidation of 10 mM solutions of the substrates were: for pyrocatechol--0.48 min-1; 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylamine (DOP-amine)--0.52 min-1; 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA)--0.17 min-1; noradrenaline--0.12 min-1; 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (DHBA)--0.032 min-1; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBAc)--0.01 min-1; gallic acid--0.01 min-1. Kin of the enzyme in oxidation of pyrocatechol does not depend practically on pH, ionic strength and polarity of the medium, but rises with its temperature. For a temperature range from 20 to 40 degrees C the effective activation energy calculated in terms of the Arrhenius equation is equal to 28 kJ/mol and the preexponential value for the given preparation was 38 850 min-1. The enzyme activity is determined by the substituent nature in the substrate molecule: electron-donor groups (--CH2--) accelerate the oxidation as compared to nonsubstituted pyrocatechol and electron-acceptor groups (--COOH, --CHO) make it more difficult. If the o-diphenoloxidase activity in oxidation of a 10 mM solution of pyrocatechol is 100%, then the oxidation rate of DOP-amine taken in the same concentration would be 111, DOPA--61, noradrenaline--24, DOBA--2,7, DHBA--0.7, gallic acid--0.8%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fernblock®, an aqueous extract of the aerial parts of the fern Polypodium leucotomos, used as raw material for topical and oral photoprotective formulations, was fractioned by HPLC and the main components with antioxidant capability were identified by means of UV spectra, electrochemical detection, and MS". Phenolic compounds were identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, caffeic acid, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, 4-hydroxycinnamoyl-quinic acid, ferulic acid, and five chlorogenic acid isomers. Total ferric antioxidant capacity (FRAP) of HPLC eluted fractions was measured. The results suggest that the herein identified compounds support, at least partially, the antioxidant and radical scavenging capacities of Fernblock.
We have developed a new method for the three-dimensional modeling of extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra which enables the extraction of the local structure of aqueous metal complexes from spectral mixtures of several components. The new method combines two techniques: Monte Carlo simulation and target transformation factor analysis (TFA). Monte Carlo simulation is used to create random arrangements between the X-ray absorbing metal ion and the ligand atoms, and to calculate the theoretical EXAFS spectrum of each arrangement. The theoretical EXAFS spectrum is then introduced as test spectrum in the TFA procedure, to test whether or not the test spectrum is likely to be a component of the spectral mixtures. This coupled procedure is repeated until the error in the test spectrum is minimized. The new method can thus be used to isolate and refine the structure of complexes from spectral mixtures and to determine their relative concentrations, solely on the basis of an estimate of a ligand structure. The performance of the proposed method is validated using uranium Liii-edge EXAFS spectra of binary mixtures of two uranium(VI) 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid complexes.
The phenolic contents and antioxidant, anticancer, antidiabetic, and anticholinergic potentials of four endemic Gysophila taxa (G. pallida, G. arrosti, G. tuberculosa, and G. eriocalyx) were investigated. The HPLC analysis showed that methanol extracts of all the tested species were richer in phenolics than water extracts. 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillin, syringic acid, and p-coumaric acid were detected in all extracts. In parallel to the phenolic contents, methanol extracts displayed comparatively higher antioxidant activity than water extracts. Additionally, all extracts exhibited dose-dependent antiproliferative activity on the cancer cell lines with lower IC50 values changing from 0.170 to 1.805 mg/ml. Moreover, the extracts impressively inhibited the acetylcholinesterase (0.63-26.04), butyrylcholinesterase (3.66-10.73), and α-glycosidase (98.52-235.55) enzymes with very low IC50 (mg/ml) values. Together, the present results indicate that Gysophila taxa have various biological activities together with higher phenolic contents. Hence, these species hold good potential for use in the pharmaceutical industry. PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS: Gypsophila taxa having numerous biological activities have been used for different purpose in folk medicine as well as their use in the food industry. The obtained results of the current study indicated that the extracts of Gypsophila taxa are rich in phenolics and flavonoids with powerful antioxidant and antiproliferative activity against different type of cancer cell lines. In addition, the extracts obtained from these taxa showed notable antidiabetic and anticholinergics effects. Gypsophila taxa could be used as a natural material to develop anticancer, antidiabetic, and anticholinergic drugs.
Microbial metabolites of anthocyanins are reported to be identical to many endogenous human metabolites, such as the catecholamine metabolite DOPAC (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid), or mimic pharmacologically active agents such as the anti-inflammatory salicylic acid (2-hydroxybenzoic acid) or vasoactive acetovanillone (1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)ethan-1-one). As these metabolites of dietary origin have the potential to affect human metabolic, immune, and physiological processes [1, 5] , they are likely to confound study findings in nutrition, pharmacology, or medicine. Moreover, microbial metabolites of anthocyanins, such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid (vanillic acid), 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid (syringic acid), and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid), are associated with beneficial changes in biomarkers of atherosclerosis, inflammation, and endothelial dysfunction in in vitro models [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] . Deeper evaluation of these compounds, and possibly others, warrants attention. As phenolic metabolites of dietary origin have been overlooked in many "traditional" metabolomics studies, reanalyzing banked tissue or databases with a focus on phytochemical metabolites of dietary origin could be invaluable in uncovering essential bioactives for health maintenance and protection from impairments in physiology.
Five antioxidative active substances were isolated from the EtOAc layer (20 g/56.2 g) of Korean black raspberry (Rubus coreanus Miquel) wine (11 L, black raspberry 15.7 kg fresh wt. eq.) by various column chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Proton nuclear magnetic resonance ( 1 H-NMR) spectroscopy and gas chromatography Electro Ionization-Mass Spectrometry (GC-EI-MS) identified these as 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (1, 0.1 mg), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2, 0.3 mg), 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-phenol (3, 0.6 mg; tyrosol), pyrocatechol (4, 0.3 mg), 3,4,5- trihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (5, 0.6 mg; ethyl gallate). The presence of 1 and 2 in Korean black raspberry has previously been reported. However, the presence of 3-5 in Korean black raspberry, and the identification of 1-5 from the Korean black raspberry wine have never before been reported.
Thio- and thiazoloquinazolinones were synthesized efficientlyby the anodic oxidation of catechols in the presence of 2-mercapto-4(3 H)-quinazolinone in aqueous solution.4-Methylcatechol and 3-methoxycatechol convert into thioquinazolinonesvia an EC (E: electron transfer, C: chemical reaction) pathway.Catechol, 3-methylcatechol, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid convertinto thiazoloquinazolinones via an ECEC pathway.
Brazilian peanut oil content increased with oven heating (65.08%) and decreased with microwave heating process (61.00%). While the phenolic content of untreated Brazilian nut was the highest of 68.97 mg GAE/100 g. Hazelnut (Sivri) contained the highest antioxidant activity (86.52%, untreated). Results reflected significantly differences between the antioxidant effect and total phenol contents of Brazilian nut and hazelnut (Sivri) kernels heated in the oven and microwave. Microwave heating caused a decrease in antioxidant activity of hazelnut. Gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and (+)- and catechin were the main phenolic compounds of raw Brazilian nut with the value of 5.33, 4.33 and 4.88 mg/100 g, respectively, while the dominant phenolics of raw hazelnut (Sivri) kernels were gallic acid (4.81 mg/100 g), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4.61 mg/100 g), (+)-catechin (6.96 mg/100 g) and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (4.14 mg/100 g). Both conventional and microwave heating caused minor reduction in phenolic compounds. The main fatty acids of Brazilian nut oil were linoleic (44.39–48.18%), oleic (27.74–31.74%), palmitic (13.09–13.70%) and stearic (8.20–8.91%) acids, while the dominant fatty acids of hazelnut (Sivri) oil were oleic acid (80.84%), respectively. The heating process caused noticeable change in fatty acid compositions of both nut oils.
Flavonoids and polyphenolic compounds are widely distributed in commonly consumed foods, beverages and herbs. Their consumption has been associated with improving the health and reducing the risk of several chronic diseases. In Saudi Arabia, recent interest in the health-promoting properties of traditional herbs has been increased. To-date researchers have focused on testing these therapeutic properties. However, information about their chemical profile is largely unexplored. Thus, the beginning of this project aimed to use HPLC–PDA–MS2 to identify polyphenolic compounds in a medicinal herbal tea made from seeds of Anastatica hirerochuntica. Twenty compounds comprising a series of flavone C- and O-linked glycosides, phenolic acids, chlorogenic acids and flavonols were identified or partially identified on the basis of co chromatography with reference compounds and MS2 and MS3 fragmentation patterns. The flavones were the principal components, occurring as luteolin, apigenin and diosmetin conjugates. The antioxidant potential of individual compounds in Anastatica was assessed using HPLC with an on-line ABTS•+ detection system. Under the experimental conditions, 14 compounds exhibited antioxidant activity. The highest contribution to the antioxidant capacity of the tea, 56%, came from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and caffeoyl- and dicaffeoylquinic acids while 6-C-glucosides of luteolin and apigenin contributed 41%. These findings together with tests in the FRAP antioxidant assay and the Folin–Ciocalteu total phenolics assay revealed that aqueous infusion of A. hirerochuntica seed is rich in polyphenolic compounds. ::: ::: Another perspective of investigating these polyphenolic compounds is not just knowing their chemical constituents but also studying their bioavailability upon ingestion. Therefore, blackberries and strawberries were chosen for intervention studies with human subjects to examine the bioavailability of anthocyanins, a group of flavonoids, due to their importance as natural antioxidants that have been linked with beneficial effects on health to humans. In the first in vivo study, plasma and urine were collected from eight healthy subjects after ingestion of 180 g of blackberries and analysed by HPLC-PDA-MS2. Cyanidin-3-O-glucoside was metabolised principally to peonidin-O-glucuronide. Cyanidin-3-O-glucoside and its metabolites appeared rapidly in the plasma in low concentrations ranging from 5 to 20 nmol/L with low urinary excretion of ~0.08% of the total intake. In the second in vivo study, both blackberry and strawberry were used to examine the small intestinal absorption and metabolism of both cyanidin-3-O-glucoside and pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside by feeding five ileostomy volunteers with 180 g of berries. Samples of urine and ileal fluid were collected over a 0-24 h period after ingestion and analysed by HPLC-PDA-MS2 Unmetabolized anthocyanins of blackberries and strawberries were recovered in ileal fluids at a level of 5.1% and 13.6%. This indicates either low level of absorption or lack of stability at the non-acid pH in the small intestine. The overall urinary excretion of anthocyanins was 0.06% and 0.87% of intake of blackberries and strawberries respectively. The urine data shows that both cyanidin and pelargonidin glucosides were metabolised primarily to peonidin-O-glucuronide and pelargonidin-O-glucuronide respectively. Although low recoveries of the two compounds are reported in this investigation in both ileal fluid and urine, pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside showed a slightly higher recovery compared to cyanidin-3-O-glucoside. The data from both in vivo studies reflect the influence of the aglycone structure on the bioavailability of these anthocyanins. ::: ::: The stability of anthocyanins in the gastrointestinal tract was also assessed using in vitro models (Chapter 5). The results indicated that at neutral pH the salivary enzymes and oral microbiota had no impact on cyanidin-3-O-glucoside but degraded pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside by ~20%. With simulated and human gastric juice, both anthocyanins were unstable and the breakdown continued dramatically under pancreatic digestion where a 5.1% recovery was obtained. Their low recovery levels were comparable to those obtained in vivo with ileal fluid. These findings imply that the chemical structure of both anthocyanins influence their stability similarly. However, the data provide no explanation about the higher bioavailability of pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside compared to cyanidin-3-O-glucoside in vivo. This presumably is a consequence of the more ready access of pelargonidin-3-O-glucoside to the enterocytes of the small intestine. ::: ::: In conclusion, the work here has shown the diversity of compounds with potential health benefits that are present in a natural product from Saudi Arabia. Experiments were carried out, using local products from the UK, to investigate factors that would affect their potential to provide health benefits. The in vivo and in vitro experiments show the complexity of investigations of potential bioactive compounds in human nutritional research. Polyphenols which differ by only a single hydroxyl group show very different absorption, metabolism and stability properties.
Cyanidin 3-glucoside (C3G) is one of the major dietary anthocyanins implicated in the prevention of chronic diseases. To evaluate the impact of human intestinal bacteria on the fate of C3G in the host, we studied the metabolism of C3G in human microbiota-associated (HMA) rats in comparison with germ-free (GF) rats. Urine and faeces of the rats were analysed for C3G and its metabolites within 48 h after the application of 92 μmol C3G/kg body weight. In addition, we tested the microbial C3G conversion in vitro by incubating C3G with human faecal slurries and selected human gut bacteria. The HMA rats excreted with faeces a three times higher percentage of unconjugated C3G products and a two times higher percentage of conjugated C3G products than the GF rats. These differences were mainly due to the increased excretion of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde and 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid. Only the urine of HMA rats contained peonidin and 3-hydroxycinnamic acid and the percentage of conjugated C3G products in the urine was decreased compared with the GF rats. Overall, the presence of intestinal microbiota resulted in a 3·7 % recovery of the C3G dose in HMA rats compared with 1·7 % in GF rats. Human intestinal bacteria rapidly degraded C3G in vitro. Most of the C3G products were also found in the absence of bacteria, but at considerably lower levels. The higher concentrations of phenolic acids observed in the presence of intestinal bacteria may contribute to the proposed beneficial health effects of C3G.
In vitro, O-methylation of physiological substrates of catechol O-methyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.6) such as (nor)epinephrine, dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, N-acetyldopamine, N-acetylnorepinephrine, and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine affords mixtures of m- and p-O-methyl derivatives. The extent of p-methylation relative to m-methylation is low with substrates containing an ionized moiety in the ring substituent, i.e., amino acids, acids, and amines, and increases as the polar (hydrophilic) character of the ring substituent is decreased. With a nonpolar substituent, as in 4-ethylcatechol, the ratio of meta to para products is 1:1. The results suggest the presence of a nonpolar region in the catechol-binding site of catechol O-methyltransferase which militates against binding of polar substrates in the orientation necessary for p-methylation, which nonpolar substrates would appear to bind in a random fashion, resulting in the formation of nearly equal amounts of m- and p-O-methylated products. No change in the meta:para ratios was observed during more than 400-fold purification of catechol O-methyltransferase, suggesting that only one enzyme is involved in both m- and p-O-methylation.
Olive mill wastewaters create significant environmental issues in olive-processing countries. One of the most hazardous groups of pollutants in these wastewaters is phenolic compounds. Here, olive mill wastewater was used as substrate and treated in single-chamber air-cathode microbial fuel cells. Olive mill wastewater yielded a maximum voltage of 381 mV on an external resistance of 1 kΩ. Notable decreases in the contents of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, tyrosol, gallic acid and p-coumaric acid were detected. Chemical oxygen demand removal rates were 65 % while removal of total phenolics by the process was lower (49 %). Microbial community analysis during the olive mill wastewater treating MFC has shown that both exoelectrogenic and phenol-degrading microorganisms have been enriched during the operation. Brevundimonas-, Sphingomonas- and Novosphingobium-related phylotypes were enriched on the anode biofilm, while Alphaproteobacteria and Bacteriodetes dominated the cathode biofilm. As one of the novel studies, it has been demonstrated that recalcitrant olive mill wastewaters could be treated and utilized for power generation in microbial fuel cells.
Abstract A chemical investigation of the aerial parts of Bupleurum montanum (Coss. & Dur.) (Apiaceae) afforded five compounds, quercitin 1 , tamarexetin 2 , isorhamnetin-3-rutinoside 3 , kaempferol-3- O -β-rutinoside 4 , and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (Protocatechuic acid) 5 . The structural elucidation was performed mainly by MS, 1D and 2D NMR spectrum data.
Abstract The study of solvation of three phenolic acids, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), and 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid (syringic acid), in pure, methanol-modified and acetone-modified (0.03 and 0.06 mol fraction) supercritical (SC) carbon dioxide has been carried out by computational methods. Structural features of hydrogen-bonded complexes formation in modified SC media have been researched by using classical molecular dynamics at different densities corresponding to the experimental pressures 20 and 30 MPa and temperatures from 313 to 333 K. The results obtained have revealed that an increase of fluid density and cosolvent concentration provide increasing the average number of hydrogen bonds formed by the solute with cosolvent. Ab initio calculations of formation energy of hydrogen-bonded complexes solute – cosolvent have been performed. Solvation free energy of the phenolic acids in SC CO 2 with and without cosolvents was evaluated by means of the Bennett’s acceptance ratio method. The solvation free energy has been found to be strongly dependent on the number of hydrogen bonds solute – cosolvent. Cosolvent-induced solubility enhancement values were also calculated. The results indicate that the increase in solubility of the phenolic acids is observed by passing from the pure SC CO 2 through acetone-modified to methanol-modified solvent. Moreover the order of cosolvent-induced solubility enhancement magnitude depends on the number of hydrogen bonds solute – cosolvent and greatly on the concentration of the latter.
Primary osteoporosis is a disease related to excessive bone resorption due to estrogen insufficiency that occurs postmenopause. Protocatechuic acid (PCA), or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, is a common compound present in numerous plants. Although numerous biological activities of PCA have been identified, its antiosteoporotic function has not been well established. In this study, the antiosteoporotic activity of PCA supplementation was determined in ovariectomized (OVX) female ICR mice at 12 weeks after OVX. The biomechanical properties of a bone were evaluated by microcomputed tomography. The signaling molecules associated with osteoclast differentiation were determined in bone marrow cells through immunoblot or RT-PCR. Oral supplementation with PCA (20 mg/kg/day) significantly ameliorated the OVX-mediated stimulation of osteoclast activity based on decreases in serum levels of receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL), osteocalcin, and bone alkaline phosphatase and increase in serum osteoprotegerin (each group, n = 6; p < 0.05). In addition, the OVX-induced decreases in mRNA expression levels of cathepsin K, calcitonin receptor, nuclear factor of activated T cell cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6) in bone marrow cells were significantly attenuated (each group, n = 6; p < 0.05). Finally, the loss of trabecular bone and changes in biomechanical properties of a bone were significantly improved by supplementation with 20 mg/kg PCA (each group, n = 6; p < 0.05). Collectively, our results show that PCA supplement suppressed trabecular bone loss in OVX mice and therefore might be an effective alternative approach for preventing the progression of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Abstract Brazilian peanut oil content increased with oven heating (65.08%) and decreased with microwave heating process (61.00%). While the phenolic content of untreated Brazilian nut was the highest of 68.97 mg GAE/100 g. Hazelnut (Sivri) contained the highest antioxidant activity (86.52%, untreated). Results reflected significantly differences between the antioxidant effect and total phenol contents of Brazilian nut and hazelnut (Sivri) kernels heated in the oven and microwave. Microwave heating caused a decrease in antioxidant activity of hazelnut. Gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and (?)-and catechin were the main phenolic compounds of raw Brazilian nut with the value of 5.33, 4.33 and 4.88 mg/100 g, respectively, while the dominant phenolics of raw hazelnut (Sivri) kernels were gallic acid (4.81 mg/100 g), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4.61 mg/100 g), (?)-catechin (6.96 mg/ 100 g) and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (4.14 mg/100 g). Both conventional and microwave heating caused minor reduction in phenolic compounds. The main fatty acids of Brazilian nut oil were linoleic (44.39-48.18%), oleic (27.74-31.74%), palmitic (13.09-13.70%) and stearic (8.20-8.91%) acids, while the dominant fatty acids of hazelnut (Sivri) oil were oleic acid (80.84%), respectively.
The antioxidant effect and total phenol contents of cashew nut extracts heated in the oven and microwave were reduced compared to the control. Gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and (?)-catechin were the main phenolic compounds of Brazilian nut and hazelnut (Sivri) extracts heated at different microwave powers. It was not observed regular increase or decrease at fatty acid composition an phenolic compounds of Brazilian nut and hazelnut kernels associated with applied heating process. Therefore, antioxidant activity, total phenol, phenolic 1,2-Dihydroxybenzene 1.67 ± 0.50b 1.24 ± 0.10c 1.70 ± 0.22a 4.14 ± 0.66a 3.55 ± 0.16b 2.56 ± 0.89c
Cyanidin 3-glucoside (C3G) is one of the major dietary anthocyanins implicated in the prevention of chronic diseases. To evaluate the impact of human intestinal bacteria on the fate of C3G in the host, we studied the metabolism of C3G in human microbiota-associated (HMA) rats in comparison with germ-free (GF) rats. Urine and faeces of the rats were analysed for C3G and its metabolites within 48 h after the application of 92 mmol C3G/kg body weight. In addition, we tested the microbial C3G conversion in vitro by incubating C3G with human faecal slurries and selected human gut bacteria. The HMA rats excreted with faeces a three times higher percentage of unconjugated C3G products and a two times higher percentage of conjugated C3G products than the GF rats. These differences were mainly due to the increased excretion of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde and 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid. Only the urine of HMA rats contained peonidin and 3-hydroxycinnamic acid and the percentage of conjugated C3G products in the urine was decreased compared with the GF rats. Overall, the presence of intestinal microbiota resulted in a 3·7 % recovery of the C3G dose in HMA rats compared with 1·7 % in GF rats. Human intestinal bacteria rapidly degraded C3G in vitro. Most of the C3G products were also found in the absence of bacteria, but at considerably lower levels. The higher concentrations of phenolic acids observed in the presence of intestinal bacteria may contribute to the proposed beneficial health effects of C3G.
The active sites of deoxyhypusyl hydroxylase and prolyl 4-hydroxylase have been probed with reporter molecules (27, 28) . Both protein hydroxylases recognize -Gly-x-y-Gly-motifs in their respective substrates and both.of their active sites contain (a) a tightly bound metal ion accessible to low molecular weight ligands; and (b) an ionic side chain for salt-bridging ligands. Certain catecholpeptides which mimic the -Gly-x-yGly-motif and inhibit purified prolyl 4-hydroxylase also suppress deoxyhypusyl hydroxylase in vitro (27) . Nonpeptide compounds like 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) also inhibit both protein hydroxylases (27, 29) . The catecholpeptides and 3,4-DHBA are, however, not stable under biological conditions due to the redox reactivity of their aromatic dihydroxybenzene moiety (30) . Thus, L-mimosine, a naturally occurring catechol analogue with a biologically stable, nonaromatic 3-hydroxypyridin-4 one ring, was selected as a pilot compound (Fig. 1) .
Primary osteoporosis is a disease related to excessive bone resorption due to estrogen insufficiency that occurs postmenopause. Protocatechuic acid (PCA), or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, is a common compound present in numerous plants. Although numerous biological activities of PCA have been identified, its antiosteoporotic function has not been well established. In this study, the antiosteoporotic activity of PCA supplementation was determined in ovariectomized (OVX) female ICR mice at 12 weeks after OVX. The biomechanical properties of a bone were evaluated by microcomputed tomography. The signaling molecules associated with osteoclast differentiation were determined in bone marrow cells through immunoblot or RT-PCR. Oral supplementation with PCA (20 mg/kg/day) significantly ameliorated the OVX-mediated stimulation of osteoclast activity based on decreases in serum levels of receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL), osteocalcin, and bone alkaline phosphatase and increase in serum osteoprotegerin (each group, n = 6; p < 0 05). In addition, the OVX-induced decreases in mRNA expression levels of cathepsin K, calcitonin receptor, nuclear factor of activated T cell cytoplasmic 1 (NFATc1), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-associated factor-6 (TRAF6) in bone marrow cells were significantly attenuated (each group, n = 6; p < 0 05). Finally, the loss of trabecular bone and changes in biomechanical properties of a bone were significantly improved by supplementation with 20 mg/kg PCA (each group, n = 6; p < 0 05). Collectively, our results show that PCA supplement suppressed trabecular bone loss in OVX mice and therefore might be an effective alternative approach for preventing the progression of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Fifteen compounds involving secoiridoids(glycosides),triterpenoids,xanthones,aromatic acids(alcohols),aliphatic alcohols and steroids were isolated from Swertia cincta,which were characterized to be swertiamarin(1),gentiopicroside(2),erythrocentaurin(3),(-)gentiolactone(4),angelone(5),oleanolic acid(6),3-epi-taraxerol(7),swertianolin(8),m-hydroxybenzyl alcohol(9),dimethyl phthalate(10),diisobutyl phthalate(11),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(12),n-hentriacontanol(13),β-sitosterol(14) and daucosterol(15).Compounds 4-5,7,9-13 and 15 were obtained from Swertia cincta for the first time.
Dodecyl protocatechuate (dodecyl) is a derivative of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) that possesses anti-oxidant and antifungal properties. Nanostructured lipid systems (NLS) can potentiate the action of many antifungal agents, reducing the required dose and side effects by improving their activity. This work aimed to evaluate dodecyl protocatechuate loaded into a nanostructured lipid system (NLS+dodecyl) as a strategy for the treatment of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides lutzii in vitro. Antifungal activity against P. brasiliensis and P. lutzii was evaluated using the microdilution technique. NLS+dodecyl showed high antifungal activity with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) ranging from 0.06 to 0.03 μg/mL; 4 to 16-fold higher than that of free dodecyl. NLS+dodecyl was able to inhibit fungal adhesion of the extracellular artificial matrix proteins (laminin and fibronectin), resulting in 82.4% and 81% inhibition, respectively, an increase of 8% to 17% compared with free dodecyl. These findings corroborate previous results demonstrating 65% and 74% inhibition of fungal adhesion in pulmonary fibroblast cells by dodecyl and NLS+dodecyl, respectively, representing a 9% increase in inhibition for NLS+dodecyl. Subsequently, cytotoxicity was evaluated using the 0.4% sulforhodamine B assay. NLS+dodecyl did not exhibit cytotoxicity in MRC5 (human pneumocyte) and HepG2 (human hepatic carcinoma) cells, thus increasing the selectivity index (SI) for NLS+dodecyl. In addition, cytotoxicity was evaluated in vivo using the Caenorhabditis elegans model; neither dodecyl nor NLS+dodecyl exhibited any cytotoxic effects. Taken together, these results suggest that NLS can be used as a strategy to improve the activity of dodecyl against P. brasiliensis and P. lutzii because it improves antifungal activity, increases the inhibition of fungal adhesion in lung cells and the extracellular matrix in vitro, and does not exhibit any toxicity both in vitro and in vivo.
In this work, a sensitive and efficient method was established and validated for qualitative and quantitative analysis of major bioactive constituents in Dazhu Hongjingtian capsule by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. A total of 32 compounds were tentatively identified using ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Furthermore, 12 constituents, namely gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, salidroside, p-coumaric acid-4-O-β-d-glucopyranoside, bergeninum, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, syringate, 6''-O-galloylsalidroside, rhodiosin, rhodionin and kaempferol-7-O-α-l-rhamnoside, were simultaneously quantified by the developed ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with a triple quadrupole mass spectrometry method in 9 min. All of them were analyzed on an Agilent ZorBax SB-C18 column (3.0 × 100 mm, 1.8 μm) with linear gradient elution of methanol-0.1% formic acid water. The proposed method was applied to analyze three batches of samples with acceptable linearity (R, 0.9979-0.9997), precision (RSD, 1.3-4.7%), repeatability (RSD, 1.7-4.9%), stability (RSD, 2.2-4.9%) and recovery (RSD, 0.6-4.4%) of the 12 compounds. As a result, the analytical method possessing high throughput and sensitivity is suitable for the quality control of Dazhu Hongjingtian capsule.
Two flow-injection analysis (FIA) systems for the determination of trace manganese in salts are presented using highly sensitive catalytic detection based on the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid by hydrogen peroxide. Two different approaches, the use of a large sample volume injection in a usual FIA mode (system A) and on-line coupling of a cation-exchange separation column with detection in a continuous flow system (system B), have proved very effective for eliminating the blank peak problem and thus affording direct injection of a sample solution containing a large concentration of salt. The limits of determinations are 0.04 ppm and 0.01 ppm for systems A and B respectively, when a 5 g sample is used for preparing the 100 ml sample solution. The proposed FIA systems were satisfactorily applied to the determination of manganese at 0.03-1.59 ppm in solar salts (salts made by exposing brine to the sun) with good precision.
Dodecyl protocatechuate (dodecyl) is a derivative of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) that possesses anti-oxidant and antifungal properties. Nanostructured lipid systems (NLS) can potentiate the action of many antifungal agents, reducing the required dose and side effects by improving their activity. This work aimed to evaluate dodecyl protocatechuate loaded into a NLS (NLS+dodecyl) as a strategy for the treatment of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and P. lutzii in vitro. Antifungal activity against P. brasiliensis and P. lutzii was evaluated using the microdilution technique. NLS+dodecyl showed high antifungal activity with a minimum inhibitory concentration ranging from 0.06 to 0.03 µg/mL; 4-to 16-fold higher than that of free dodecyl. NLS+dodecyl was able to inhibit fungal adhesion of the extracellular artificial matrix proteins (laminin and fibronectin), resulting in 82.4 and 81% inhibition, respectively, an increase of 8-17% compared with free dodecyl. These findings corroborate previous results demonstrating 65 and 74% inhibition of fungal adhesion in pulmonary fibroblast cells by dodecyl and NLS+dodecyl, respectively, representing a 9% increase in inhibition for NLS+dodecyl. Subsequently, cytotoxicity was evaluated using the 0.4% sulforhodamine B assay. NLS+dodecyl did not exhibit cytotoxicity in MRC5 (human pneumocyte) and HepG2 (human hepatic carcinoma) cells, thus increasing the selectivity index for NLS+dodecyl. In addition, cytotoxicity was evaluated in vivo using the Caenorhabditis elegans model; neither dodecyl nor NLS+dodecyl exhibited any toxic effects. Taken together, these results suggest that NLS can be used as a strategy to improve the activity of dodecyl against P. brasiliensis and P. lutzii because it improves antifungal activity, increases the inhibition of fungal adhesion in lung cells and the extracellular matrix in vitro, and does not exhibit any toxicity both in vitro and in vivo.
Abstract A highly sensitive and selective catalytic adsorptive cathodic striping procedure for the determination of trace tin is presented. The method is based on adsorptive accumulation of the Sn(IV)–3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) complex onto a hanging mercury drop electrode, followed by reduction of the adsorbed species. The reduction current is enhanced catalytically by vanadium(IV). The optimal experimental conditions include the use of 0.10 M formate buffer (pH 3.1), 8.0 × 10 −5 M DHBA, 3.0 × 10 −3 M V(IV), an accumulation potential of −0.30 V (versus SCE), an accumulation time of 60 s, a scan rate of 200 mV/s and a second-order derivative linear scan mode. The peak current is proportional to the concentration of tin over the range of 0.01–40 μg/L, and the detection limit is 0.005 μg/L for a 60 s adsorption time. The proposed method was applied to the determination of tin in canned food, human hair and waste water samples with satisfactory results.
Brown rot fungi degrade wood, in initial stages, mainly through hydroxyl radicals (•OH) produced by Fenton reactions. These Fenton reactions can be promoted by dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs), which can chelate and reduce Fe(III), increasing the reactivity for different substrates. This mechanism allows the extensive degradation of carbohydrates and the oxidation of lignin during wood biodegradation by brown rot fungi. To understand the enhanced reactivity in these systems, kinetics experiments were carried out, measuring •OH formation by the spin-trapping technique of electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. As models of the fungal DHBs, 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (catechol), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were utilized as well as 1,2-dihydroxy-3,5-benzenedisulfonate as a non-Fe(III)-reducing substance for comparison. Higher amounts and maintained concentrations of •OH were observed in the driven Fenton reactions versus the unmodified Fenton process. A linear correlation between the logarithms of complex stability constants and the •OH production was observed, suggesting participation of such complexes in the radical production.
The ehtyl acetate-soluble acidic fractions from juice and cake of Rubrs coreanum fruit showed DPPH radical-scavenging activity. Each fraction was purified through silica gel adsorption column chromatography. The compounds in the ethyl acetate-soluble acidic fraction of juice were identified as 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid by GC-MS. The compounds in the ethyl acetate-soluble acidic fraction of cake were also identified as succinic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, citric acid, 3,4,5,-trihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid by GC-MS. Antioxidative activity of the identified compounds were evaluated by DPPH radical-scavenging assay and hydroxyl radical-scavenging activity assay.
Oxomolybdenum(VI) complexes of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-H 2dhb) have been incorporated into layered double hydroxides (LDHs) by treatment of the LDH-nitrate (Zn-Al, Mg-Al) or LDH-chloride (Li-Al) precursors with aqueous or water/ethanol solutions of the complex (NMe 4) 2[MoO 2(3,4-dhb) 2].2H 2O at 50 or 100 degrees C. The texture and chemical composition of the products were investigated by elemental analysis and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) with coupled energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS). Microanalysis for N and EDS analysis for Cl showed that at least 90% of nitrate or chloride ions were replaced during the ion exchange reactions. The final Mo content in the materials varied between 6.5 and 11.6 wt %. Mo K-edge EXAFS analysis, supported by IR, Raman, UV-vis, and (13)C{ (1)H} CP/MAS NMR spectroscopic studies, showed the presence of cointercalated [MoO 2(3,4-dhb) 2] ( m- ) and [Mo 2O 5(3,4-dhb) 2] ( m- ) complexes in proportions that depend on the type of LDH support and the reaction conditions. The binuclear bis(catecholate) complex, with a Mo...Mo separation of 3.16 A, was the major species intercalated in the Zn-Al and Li-Al products prepared using only water as solvent. The X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) patterns of all the Mo-containing LDHs showed the formation of an expanded phase with a basal spacing around 15.4 A. High-resolution synchrotron XRPD patterns were indexed with hexagonal unit cells with a c-axis of either 30.7 (for Li-Al-Mo LDHs) or 45.9 A (for a Zn-Al-Mo LDH). Fourier maps ( F obs) calculated from the integrated intensities extracted from Le Bail profile decompositions indicated that the binuclear guest species are positioned such that the Mo --> Mo vector is parallel to the host layers, and the overall orientation of the complex is perpendicular to the same layers. The thermal behavior of selected materials was studied by variable-temperature XRPD, thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC).
In this study, a simple and rapid UHPLC-UV method was established and validated to determine the polyphenols present in fruits of L. barbarum L.: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, hippuric acid, caffeic acid, vanillic acid, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylacetic acid, 3-(2,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propionic acid, p-coumaric acid, ferulic acid, (±)-catechin, (−)-epicatechin, rutin, quercitrin, hesperidin, neohesperidin, (±)-naringenin, hesperetin, chrysin, and pinocembrin. The validated method was applied to qualitative and quantitative determination of phenolic acids and flavonoids in fruits of L. barbarum L. Also, the identity of the polyphenols in samples was confirmed by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. Moreover, in the present study, the antioxidant activities of extracts of L. barbarum L. were evaluated.
Candida albicans utilized 14C (ring) labelled dehydropolymer of coniferyl alcohol, 14C-teakwood lignin and indulin and released p-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol as by products from lignin. Candida albicans produced catechol 1,2-dioxygenase, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase, intra- and extracellular polyphenol oxidase and peroxidase during indulin degradation. The study suggests that Candida albicans degrades different types of lignin.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid, PCA) is discussed to represent antioxidative food components in a human diet rich in fruits and vegetables, and has been shown to prevent carcinogenesis or antitumor growth in vivo. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in chemopreventive activity of PCA are poorly understood. In this study, investigations were conducted to examine the detailed signaling pathway involved in PCA-induced apoptosis in human gastric adenocarcinoma (AGS) cells. The data from cell viability assay showed that PCA exhibited the antiproliferation effect on AGS cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. The occurrence of apoptosis induced by PCA was confirmed by morphological and biochemical features, including apoptotic bodies formation and an increase in the distribution of hypodiploid phase. Molecular data showed the effect of PCA in AGS cells might be mediated via sustained phosphorylation and activation of JNK and p38 mitogen-activating protein kinases (MAPK), but not ERK. Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors or transfection with the mutant p38 or/and JNK expression vector reduced PCA-mediated apoptosis and the JNK/p38 MAPK-related proteins phosphorylation and expression, including ATF-2, c-Jun, FasL, Fas, p53 and Bax. Preincubation with Nok-1 monoclonal antibody, which is inhibitory to Fas signaling, interfered with PCA-induced cleavage of procaspase and sensitization to anti-APO-induced apoptosis. These results suggest the possible involvement of multiple signaling pathways from the MAPK to the subsequent mitochondria- and/or Fas-mediated caspase activation are potential requirements for PCA-induced AGS apoptosis. Further, PCA effectively induced JNK/p38 activation in PCA-response cell lines. Taken together, our data present the first evidence of PCA as an apoptosis inducer in AGS cells, even in tumor cells of digestive organs, and provide a new mechanism for its anticancer activity. © 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
A high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with photodiode array detection and electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-PAD-ESI-MSn) method was developed to evaluate the quality of Hpericum japomicum through establishing chromatographic fingerprint and simultaneous determination of seven phenolic compounds. The analysis was achieved on an Ultimate XB-C18 analytical column (250 mm × 4.6 mm i.d., 5 µm) using an aqueous solution of acetic acid (pH 3.8) and methanol as the mobile phase. Ten samples of H. japomicum from various habitats were investigated and the correlation coefficients of similarity were determined from the HPLC fingerprints. By using an online ESI-MSn, 20 common peaks in chromatographic fingerprints were identified as phenols, including flavones and their glycosides, flavonones and their glucosides, flavanols, xanthones, phloroglucinols, phenyl propanoids and chromones. Based on the above study, seven phenols which are considered to be major constituents in H. japomicum, including 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1), taxfolin-7-O-α-l-rhamnoside (7), 7-dihydroxy-2-(1-methylpropyl)chromone-8-β-d-glucoside (8), isoquercitrin (14), quercitrin (16), quercetin-7-O-α-l-rhamnoside (18) and quercetin (19) were quantified by the validated HPLC-PAD method. This developed method by combination of chromatographic fingerprint and quantification analysis could be applied to control the quality of H. japomicum. Copyright © 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Protocatechuic acid (PCA) (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), a natural phenolic compound found in many edible and medicinal plants, is a major benzoic acid derivative with a strong antioxidative effect, 10-fold higher than that of alpha-tocopherol. The present study is aimed at evaluating the antidiabetic effect of PCA on STZ-diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced in male albino Wistar rats by the administration of STZ (40 mg/kg BW, i.p.). PCA was administered orally at three different doses (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW/day) to STZ-diabetic rats for 45 days. Diabetic rats showed increase in plasma glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and a decrease in plasma insulin and hemoglobin (Hb). The activities of gluconeogenic enzymes like glucose 6-phosphatase and fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase increased whereas the glycolytic enzyme glucokinase decreased in the liver along with glycogen content. The oral administration of PCA or glibenclamide in saline, for 45 days, prevented the changes and improved toward normalcy. No significant effect was observed in normal rats treated with PCA. Thus, our results show that PCA at 100 mg possesses a potential antihyperglycemic effect that is comparable with glibenclamide.
Twelve compounds were obtained from petroleum ether and EtoAc fractions of 95% ethnol extract of vitex trifolia L.by repeated column chromatrography over silica gel coulmn and sephadex LH-20.By physical-chemical and spectral analysis,these compounds were identified as palmitic acid(1),p-hydroxybenzoic acid(2),ethyl-p-hydroxybenzoate(3),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(4),4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid(5),caffeic acid(6),cis-p-hydroxyl ethyl cinnamate(7),trans-p-hydroxyl ethyl cinnamate(8),luteolin(9),quercetin(10),apigenin(11),and oleanolic acid(12).Compounds 3 and 6-11 were isolated from this kind of plant for the first time.Compounds 3,6-8,and 11 were isolated from this genus for the first time.
A rapid estimation of vapor pressure and vaporization enthalpies of some disubstituted benzoic acids (2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,4-DHBA), 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,6-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), 2,4-dinitrobenzoic acid (2,4-DNBA), 3,4-dinitrobenzoic acid (3,4-DNBA), 2,5-dibromobenzoic acid (2,5-DBBA), and 3,5-dibromobenzoic acid (3,5-DBBA)) was made using a simultaneous TG/DSC apparatus operating with aluminum open crucibles under inert atmosphere in both isothermal and non-isothermal mode. No evidence of thermal decomposition (in the form of endo or exothermic effect) was found during each experiment. Vapor pressure was obtained in the range from some tenth to some hundreds of Pa after calibration with benzoic acid. All operative conditions (sample mass, temperature rage, and purge gas flow) were carefully checked in order to obtain reliable results. Internal consistency of the results obtained was checked by comparing the sublimation enthalpy obtained by the sum of the vaporization enthalpies derived by the global NITG and ITG data, the melting enthalpies from DSC adjusted at 298.15 using the molar isobaric heat capacities of both solid and liquid estimated according to a group additivity approach and that obtained from the sublimation enthalpies determined by torsion effusion corrected at 298.15 K using the same approach. Finally, some comments concerning the relationship between energetics and structure (substituent effect) are also reported.
Some heavy metals are essential for life functioning at trace level but most of them are recognized as potentially toxic beyond their permissible limits. 1 The toxicity of heavy metal ions may be caused by the inhibition and reduction of various enzymes by substitution of essential metal ions from enzymes and complexation with certain ligands of amino acids. 2 Thus, accurate and precise determination of trace heavy metal ions in air, water, soil, plant, food, and geological samples has become a major interest of chemists. 3, 4 Flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS) has been extensively employed for the determination of metal ions because of its low cost, high selectivity, and ease of operation. 5 However, direct determination of trace heavy metal ions by FAAS is limited because of matrix interferences and insufficient sensitivity of instruments. 6, 7 To solve this problem, a preconcentration procedure is often recommended prior to the trace determination of heavy metal ions. 8 Several preconcentration based onco-precipitation, 9,10 ion exchange, 11, 12 solvent extraction, 13, 14 and solid phase extraction (SPE) 15, 16 methods have been developed. Among these methods, SPE is the most * Correspondence: elci@pau.edu.tr attractive because of its advantages such as ease of operation, recycling of solid phase, higher preconcentration factor, higher selectivity, lower cost and operation time, and low solvent consumption. 17 For SPE, various materials such as activated carbon, silica gel, polyurethane foam, microcrystalline naphthalene, C18 cartridges, Chelex-100, fullerene, alumina, and Amberlite XAD resins have been widely used as solid phases. 18 Interest has been increasing in the synthesis of chelating resins for SPE due to their high degree of selectivity, versatility, durability, and high metal loading capacity. 19 For the synthesis of chelating resins, chelating ligands are coupled with a polymeric matrix through an azo or methylene spacer. 20 The chelating resins prepared by these methods exhibit excellent resistance to ligand leaching as compared to the impregnation method in which ligands are physically incorporated on the polymer matrix. 21 Effective chelating resins can be designed by choosing a cross-linked polymer matrix and small sized ligand, populated with functional groups of interest. 20 Amberlite XAD-2 has been widely used as a polymeric matrix for the synthesis of chelating resins due to its good physical and chemical properties such as porosity and surface area. 22 Various chelating ligands such as Tiron, 23 o -vanillin thiosemicarbazone, 24 1-(2-pyridylazo)-2-naphthol (PAN), 25 thiosalicylic acid, 26 pyrocatechol, 27 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 28 2-aminothiophenol, 29 quinalizarin, 30 3-(2-nitrophenyl)- 31 2-(2-benzothiazolylazo)-p -cresol (BTAC), 32 pyrocatechol violet, 33 and oaminophenol 34 have been reported for the synthesis of Amberlite XAD-2 based chelating resins for SPE. Various thiosemicarbazones and phenyl-3-thiosemicarbazones have been widely used as spectrophotometric and spectrofluorimetric reagents for metal ions. 35 Among these, 2-acetylpyridine-4-phenyl-3-thiosemicarbazone (APPT)
The origin of mammalian catechols has not been fully explained. Dietary intake of plant quinic, shikimic27, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids28 may contribute since rats fed quinic acid, for example, excrete both free and conjugated catechol in the urine27. Likewise, plant hydroxybenzenes such as caffeic acid, chlorgenic acid, catechin, and epicatechin can undergo conversion into catechol29. The restriction of dietary plants consistently reduced the urinary catechols in half to 40 µM30 while increasing the 4-methylcatechol component implied that additional pathways contribute to the catechols such as the conversion of dietary protein to phenol and then to catechol by a NADPH dependent liver microsomal cytochrome P450 34 , 35 . Microorganisms28 are involved in these pathways since oral neomycin, which sterilizes the gut, reduces catechol excretion in half36 and we found that urine from mice fed antibiotics or raised in a gnotobiotic facility contained one-half of the siderophore activity as did conventional urine. Hence the catechols may join the list of 'cometabolites' which derive from intestinal microbes but have function in metabolic reactions in the mammalian host37. In this light, the Ngal-Scn:catechol complex is an example of a bacterial-host interaction, and a second example, after Ent chelation, by which Ngal-Scn interacts with bacterial products, albeit in this case the products of endogenous microflora in the "non-infected" state.
Sargassum naozhouense Tseng et Lu-one species of the Sargassum genus (phylum Phaeophyta, class Cyclosporeae, order Fucales, family Sargassaceae), called "black vegetable"-is distributed widely in the coastal region of the Leizhou Peninsula of China, and can be cultivated commercially under the northern South China Sea's high-temperature condition [1] [2] [3] [4] . It has a series of pharmaceutical functions in Chinese folk medicine, such as treating infections, laryngitis, dieresis, and other ailments [3] . However, there have been few studies of the chemical constituents that reported primarily carbohydrates, proteins, minerals, dietary fiber, sulfated polysaccharide, and phlorotanns from the brown seaweed S. naozhouense [3, 5, 6] . In order to fully utilize this species and obtain new bioactive compounds from seaweeds being able to produce a great variety of secondary metabolites characterized by a broad spectrum of biological activities, we investigated the brown alga S. naozhouense. Previous chemical research on this species has resulted in the isolation of 1-O-hexadecanoyl glycerol, hexadecanoyl glycerol, pheophytin a, β-sitosterol, mannitol, uracil, thymine, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxyphthalide, and 2′-deoxythmidine [2] . Now, in our further chemical investigation on the EtOH extract of S. naozhouense, a new C11-norisoprenoid derivative (namely sargassumone (1)), and six known norisoprenoids (2-7), together with a known highly oxygenated cyclopentenone (8) (Figure 1 ) were obtained. Compounds 2-8 were also isolated from S. naozhouense for the first time.
Source of material 2-Chlorobenzaldehyde (0.1 mmol, 14.0 mg) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid hydrazide (0.1 mmol, 16.8 mg) were dissolved in a 95% ethanol solution (10 ml). The mixture was stirred at room temperature to give a clear colorless solution. Crystals of the title compound were formed by gradual evaporation of the solvent over a period of three days at room temperature.
Eleven compounds, including a new sesquiterpene, were isolated from the culture medium of Aspergillus oryzae incubated with capsaicin. The structure of the new compound was determined to be 1,3,5a,6,7,8,9,9a-octahydro-9-hydroxy-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6-isopropyl-1-oxobenzo[c]oxepine-4- carboxylic acid, a heptelidic acid derivative. In addition, 10 known compounds were identified, namely 5-(hydroxymethyl)-3-furancarboxylic acid (flufuran), 3-hydroxypropanoic acid, 5-(hydroxymethyl)-2- furancarboxylic acid, 2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-ethanol, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2-furanol, hydroheptelidic acid, and trichoderonic acid A, using spectroscopic data from nuclear magnetic resonance and electrospray ionization-mass spectroscopy.
Sunflower oil has been oxidized at 25 and 100°C in the presence and in the absence of 0.01,0.02 and 0.05% 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, esculetin and fraxetin. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid shows no antioxidative activity at either temperature. Esculezin possesses a relatively low effectiveness at 100°C (stabilization factorF=1.3 for 0.05% esculetin), and at 25°C it does not improve the oxidative stability. Sunflower oil is more easy to stabilize at 100°C:F=3.0 for 0.05% fraxetin, andF=1.9 for 0.05% caffeic acid. Native sunflower oil is much more difficult to stabilize than are its kinetically pure triacylglycerols.
The multistep assay of specific catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity in human erythrocytes was validated. Enzyme preparations from lysed erythrocytes were incubated with a substrate (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) in the presence of Mg2+ and S-adenosylmethionine. The reaction products (vanillic acid and isovanillic acid) were analyzable by HPLC with electrochemical detection directly in the incubation medium after protein precipitation. The precision was calculated in order to define the random variability associated with the method by intra-assay and inter-assay relative standard deviations (RSDs) for the assays of both reaction products and protein. The intra-assay RDSs for the specific activities were between 4.8 and 11.9% (n = 5-6) at two levels of COMT activity. The inter-assay RSDs were between 6.4 and 14.2% (n = 5-6), respectively. The total variation was mostly caused by the protein assay and the HPLC assay, and contributions from the sample preparation and incubation steps were minor. Some results from the clinical application of the erythrocyte COMT assay are also reported. For both normal volunteers and patients having Parkinson's disease, a single 400 mg dose of entacapone, a peripherally acting COMT inhibitor, decreased the erythrocyte COMT activity. The application demonstrates that the assay was able to detect differences between the subjects and the effect of COMT inhibition in the clinical study.
Grouper iridovirus causes high mortality rates in cultured groupers, and effective treatment for grouper iridovirus infection is urgently required. Illicium verum Hook. f. is a well-known medicinal plant with a variety of biological activities. The aim of this study was to analyse the use of I. verum extracts to treat grouper iridovirus infection. The safe working concentration of each I. verum extract was identified both in vitro and in vivo as follows: I. verum aqueous extract (IVAE) ≤ 500 μg/ml; I. verum ethanol extract (IVEE) ≤ 250 μg/ml; shikimic acid (SKA) ≤ 250 μg/ml; trans-anethole (TAT) ≤ 800 μg/ml; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DDBA) ≤ 400 μg/ml; and quercetin (QCE) ≤ 50 μg/ml. The inhibitory activity of each I. verum extract against grouper iridovirus infection was analysed using aptamer (Q2)-based fluorescent molecular probe (Q2-AFMP) and RT-qPCR. All of the I. verum extracts displayed dose-dependent antiviral activities against grouper iridovirus. Based on the achieved per cent inhibition, IVAE, IVEE, DDBA and QCE were associated with the greatest antiviral activity (all > 90%). Together, our results indicate that I. verum extracts have effective antiviral properties, making it an excellent potential source material for the development of effective treatment for grouper iridovirus infection.
The new complexes [MO2L2]2–(H2L = 2,3- or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-H2dhb or 3,4-H2dhb, M = Mo, W or Os; H2L = 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-H2dhb, M = Mo), [OsO2(py)2(2,6-dhb)](py = pyridine), [ReOl(PPh3)2L](H2L = 2,3-, 3,4- or 2,6-H2dhb) and [M(PPh3)2(2,3-dhb)](M = Pd or Pt) have been prepared. The crystal structure of [NMe4]2[MoO2(2,3-dhb)2]·1.5H2O has been determined and exhibits catecholato rather than salicylato type bonding. Infrared, Raman, 1H and 13C-{1H} NMR spectroscopic data for the complexes are also presented.
Pseudomonas sp. strain PP4 and C5 utilize phthalate isomers (o-, mand p-) and carbaryl as carbon source, respectively. Degradative pathways were elucidated by isolating and characterizing metabolites, whole-cell O2 uptake and enzyme activity studies. Metabolic studies suggest that phthalate isomer degrading pathways converge at 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Phthalate dioxygenases responsible for the degradation of the respective phthalate isomers are induced specifically, suggesting that probably there are three different phthalate dioxygenases. This was supported by whole-cell O2 uptake studies and cells grown on glucose failed to show the activity of phthalate pathway enzymes. Glucose-grown cells lost the phthalate degradation property indicating probable involvement of plasmid, which is expressed and maintained selectively in the presence of phthalate isomers. The metabolic studies with Pseudomonas sp. strain C5 suggest that carbaryl is first hydrolyzed to 1-naphthol by carbaryl hydrolase. Generated 1-naphthol is metabolized via 1,2-dihydroxynaphahtlane, salicylate and gentisic acid to TCA cycle intermediates, thus serving as the sole source of carbon and energy. The ability to utilize phthalates (0.3%) and carbaryl (1%) at high concentrations make these strains suitable candidates for bioremediation. Detailed understanding of metabolic pathways and genetic make-up will enable one to modify these strains by genetic engineering tools for suitable application in bioremediation.
Chitosan (CTS) is a good adsorbent for dyes but lacks the ability to adsorb cationic dyes. In this study, chitosan was modified to possess the ability to adsorb cationic dyes from water. Four kinds of phenol derivatives: 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (BA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid (PA), hydrocaffeic acid (CA) were used individually as substrates of tyrosinase to graft onto chitosan. FTIR analysis provided supporting evidence of phenol derivatives being grafted. The grafting amounts of these phenol derivatives onto chitosan were examined by the adsorption of an anionic dye (amaranth) and reached a plateau value. The final contents of carboxyl groups in chitosan (mmol carboxyl groups per kg chitosan) were measured as 46.36 for BA, 70.32 for DBA, 106.44 for PA, and 113.15 for CA. These modified chitosans were used in experiments on uptake of the cationic dyes crystal violet (CV) and bismarck brown Y (BB) by a batch adsorption technique at pH 7 for CV and at pH 9 for BB and 30 degrees C. Langmuir type adsorption was found, and the maximum adsorption capacities for both dyes were increased with the following order CTS-CA>CTS-PA>CTS-DBA>CTS-BA.
Abstract Tyrosol (TY) is one of the most abundant phenolic components of olive oil mill wastewaters. Here, the degradation of synthetic aqueous solutions of 0.30 mM TY was studied by a novel heterogeneous electro-Fenton (EF) process, so-called EF-pyrite, in which pyrite powder was the source of Fe 2+ catalyst instead of a soluble iron salt used in classical EF. Experiments were performed with a cell equipped with a boron-doped diamond anode and a carbon-felt cathode, where TY and its products were destroyed by hydroxyl radicals formed at the anode surface from water oxidation and in the bulk from Fenton's reaction between Fe 2+ and H 2 O 2 generated at the cathode. Addition of 1.0 g L −1 pyrite provided an easily adjustable pH to 3.0 and an appropriate 0.20 mM Fe 2+ to optimize the EF-pyrite treatment. The effect of current on mineralization rate, mineralization current efficiency and specific energy consumption was examined under comparable EF and EF-pyrite conditions. The performance of EF-pyrite was 8.6% superior at 50 mA due to self-regulation of soluble Fe 2+ by pyrite. The TY decay in this process followed a pseudo-first-order kinetics. The absolute rate constant for TY hydroxylation was 3.57 × 10 9 M −1 s −1 , as determined by the competition kinetics method. Aromatic products like 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol, 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol, as well as o -benzoquinone, were identified by GC–MS and reversed-phase HPLC. Short-chain aliphatic carboxylic acids like maleic, glycolic, acetic, oxalic and formic were quantified by ion-exclusion HPLC. Oxalic acid was the major and most persistent product found. Based on detected intermediates, a plausible mineralization pathway for TY by EF-pyrite was proposed.
Pseudomonas sp. strain PP4 and C5 utilize phthalate isomers (o-, m-and p-) and carbaryl as carbon source, respectively. Degradative pathways were elucidated by isolating and characterizing metabolites, whole-cell O 2 uptake and enzyme activity studies. Metabolic studies suggest that phthalate isomer degrading pathways converge at 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Phthalate dioxygenases responsible for the degradation of the respective phthalate isomers are induced specifically, suggesting that probably there are three different phthalate dioxygenases. This was supported by whole-cell O 2 uptake studies and cells grown on glucose failed to show the activity of phthalate pathway enzymes. Glucose-grown cells lost the phthalate degradation property indicating probable involvement of plasmid, which is expressed and maintained selectively in the presence of phthalate isomers. The metabolic studies with Pseudomonas sp. strain C5 suggest that carbaryl is first hydrolyzed to 1-naphthol by carbaryl hydrolase. Generated 1-naphthol is metabolized via 1,2-dihydroxynaphahtlane, salicylate and gentisic acid to TCA cycle intermediates, thus serving as the sole source of carbon and energy. The ability to utilize phthalates (0.3%) and carbaryl (1%) at high concentrations make these strains suitable candidates for bioremediation. Detailed understanding of metabolic pathways and genetic make-up will enable one to modify these strains by genetic engineering tools for suitable application in bioremediation.
This study was undertaken to describe purification, identification, and characteristics of protocatechuic acid (PCA) isolated for the first time from Paenibacillus elgii HOA73 against Botrytis cinerea (the cause of gray mold disease on strawberry fruit). PCA was purified by different chromatographic techniques and identified as PCA (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) by nuclear magnetic resonance and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses. PCA displayed potent antifungal activity against B. cinerea and Rhizoctonia solani. However, the antifungal activities were not sufficient to inhibit mycelial growth of Phytophthora capsici and Fusarium oxysporum. The minimum inhibitory concentration of PCA to inhibit any visible mycelial growth of both B. cinerea and R. solani was 64 µg ml(-1) . Most B. cinerea conidia displayed altered shape and absence of germination, or were degraded after treatment with 50 and 100 µg ml(-1) PCA, respectively. Moreover, gray mold formation on strawberry fruit was almost or completely inhibited by these PCA concentrations 7 days following infection with B. cinerea conidia, respectively. PCA may be a promising alternative to chemical fungicides as a potential biofungicide to prevent growth of B. cinerea in strawberry fruit disease management.
Stingless bee honeys are rich in secondary metabolites such as free phenolic acids which can be easily absorbed into the body. Trace amount of the phenolic acids had made the analysis difficult, hence sample pretreatment is crucial. In this work, a graphene-magnetite composite (G-Fe3O4) was synthesized and assessed as an adsorbent for magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE) of two phenolic acids namely 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB) from honey samples prior to analysis using high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet-visible detector (HPLC-UV/Vis). Characterizations of G-Fe3O4 were performed using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), low vacuum scanning electron microscopy (LVSEM) and nitrogen adsorption analysis. Several MSPE parameters affecting the extraction of these two phenolic acids were optimized. Optimum MSPE conditions were 50 mg of G-Fe3O4 adsorbent, vortex rotational speed of 1600 rpm, 5 min extraction time, 30 mL sample volume at pH 0.5, 200 μL methanol as desorption solvent (5 min sonication assisted) and 5% w/v NaCl salt. Matrix-matched calibration was used for the analysis of the two phenolic acids from several honey samples. Calibration graphs were linear in the range 1–50 μg/g (R2 = 0.9997) for 4-HB and 3–50 μg/g (R2 = 0.9996) for 3,4-DHB. The limit of detection (LOD = 3S/N) calculated for 4-HB and 3,4-DHB was 0.08 μg/g and 0.14 μg/g, respectively. Good relative recoveries (72.6-110.6%) were obtained for both phenolic acids from honey samples with RSD < 6.0% (n = 3). The developed G-Fe3O4 MSPE method was applied to the analysis of both phenolic acids in honey samples from Johor Bahru, Johor. Two Trigona spp. honey samples (H1 and H2) and a commercial honey sample (H3) were used in this study. The amount of 4-HB and 3,4-DHB in H1 sample were 0.14 ± 0.9 μg/g and 0.67 ± 1.7 μg/g honey, respectively. H2 sample showed slightly higher amount of both phenolic acids (0.47 ± 3.1 μg/g for 4-HB and 1.61 ± 2.3 μg/g for 3,4-DHB). The amount of 4-HB and 3,4-DHB extracted from H3 sample was below the LOD of the developed method. The developed G-Fe3O4 MSPE method offered is simple, environmental friendly and efficient for extraction of phenolic acids from honey samples.
Polyphenols comprise the largest group of plant secondary metabolites and have critical roles in plant physiology and response to the biotic and abiotic environment. Changes in the content of polyphenols in the root extracts and root tissues of wild (Lens ervoides) and cultivated (Lens culinaris) lentil genotypes were examined in response to infection by Aphanomyces euteiches using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Genotype, infection and their interaction determined the composition of polyphenols in lentil roots. The levels of several polyphenols were lower in the root extract of the low-tannin genotype L. culinaris ZT-4 compared to L. ervoides L01-827A. Kaempferol derivatives including kaempferol dirutinoside and kaempferol 3-robinoside 7-rhamnoside were more concentrated in the healthy root tissues of L. ervoides L01-827A than in L. culinaris genotypes. Infection increased the concentration of kaempferol, apigenin, and naringenin in the root tissues of all genotypes, but had no effect on some polyphenols in the low-tannin genotype L. culinaris ZT-4. The concentrations of apigenin, naringenin, apigenin 4-glucoside, naringenin7-rutinoside, diosmetin, and hesperetin 7-rutinoside were higher in the infected root tissues of L. ervoides L01-827A compared with the L. culinaris genotypes. Organic acids including coumaric acid, vanillic acid, 4-aminosalicylic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid effectively suppressed the in-vitro hyphal growth of A. euteiches. Some of these bioactive polyphenols were more concentrated in roots of L. ervoides L01-827A but were low to undetectable in ZT-4. This study shows that genotypic differences exist in the composition of root polyphenols in lentil, and is related to the response to infection caused by A. euteiches. Polyphenols, particularly the organic acid content could be useful for selection and breeding of lentil genotypes that are resistant to Aphanomyces root rot (ARR) disease.
The synthesis and ion-binding properties of a new amide L derived from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid are described. Due to the presence of a catechol unit, the compound interacts selectively with iron(III) in organic solvent (dimethyl sulfoxide, DMSO) to produce a color change from pale yellow to green. The incorporation of the ligand L into polymeric matrices or its encapsulation into surfactant-based spheres enables analyte detection in aqueous solutions. The influence of the ligand environment (i.e. organic solvent, polymeric membrane or micelle) on the properties of the sensing materials is analyzed and the sensors are compared.
ABSTRACT The hydroxyl radical (•OH) plays important roles in environment and health problems. However, the short life time and low concentrations of •OH limited its detection. In this work, a simple method has been successfully performed for the sensitive detection of hydroxyl radical based on an activated glassy carbon electrode (AGCE).4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) was used as a trapping agent for •OH radicals, leading to the production of electroactive 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). Different procedures including polarisation and cyclic voltammetry in acid or base solutions have been used to activate the glassy carbon electrodes. The electrochemical behaviours of 3,4-DHBA on these activated electrodes were studied and compared. Experimental results showed that the glassy carbon electrode polarised in H2SO4 (AGCE-P/H2SO4) has the greatest sensitivity and reproducibility to 3,4-DHBA. 3,4-DHBA performed a linear relationship from 1.0 × 10−7 to 1.0 × 10−4 M on the AGCE-P/H2SO4. The detection limit was down to 6.2 × 10−8 M. This method has been successfully applied for the detection of hydroxyl radical levels in atmosphere without separation and purification process.
Phytochemical studies have reported the presence of kalaic acid stem bark and some other triterpenoid acids in the leaves stem bark and the root wood (Lontsi et al., 1998) . Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and protocatechualdehyde (3,4dihydroxybenzaldehyde were obtained from the stem bark of the plant (Ayinde et al., 2007) .
MATERIALS AND METHODS Materials. 2,3-Dihydroxynaphthalene, 3-methylcatechol, 4-methylcatechol, and 2,7-dihydroxynaphthalene were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc., Milwaukee, Wis. Pyrocatechol, o-phenanthroline, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were purchased from J. T. Baker Chemical Co., Phillipsburg, N.J. Bathophenanthroline sulfonate (4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline sulfonate), bathocuproine disulfonate (2,9-dimethyl-4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline disulfonate), disodium diethydithiocarbamate, 2,2'-dipyridyl, and DEAE-cellulose were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo. 1,2-Naphthoquinone was purchased from Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y. Whenever necessary, commercial products were purified by recrystallization. 1,2-Dihydroxynaphthalene was made by the method of Corner and Young (6) and purified by vacuum sublimation. Sepharose 6B was purchased from Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden. All other chemicals were purchased locally and were of analytical grade.
Cytochromes P450 (CYPs) catalyse diverse reactions and are key enzymes in fungal primary and secondary metabolism, and xenobiotic detoxification. CYP enzymatic properties and substrate specificity determine the reaction outcome. However, CYP-mediated reactions may also be influenced by their redox partners. Filamentous fungi with numerous CYPs often possess multiple microsomal redox partners, cytochrome P450 reductases (CPRs). In the plant pathogenic ascomycete Cochliobolus lunatus we recently identified two CPR paralogues, CPR1 and CPR2. Our objective was to functionally characterize two endogenous fungal cytochrome P450 systems and elucidate the putative physiological roles of CPR1 and CPR2. We reconstituted both CPRs with CYP53A15, or benzoate 4-hydroxylase from C. lunatus, which is crucial in the detoxification of phenolic plant defence compounds. Biochemical characterization using RP-HPLC shows that both redox partners support CYP activity, but with different product specificities. When reconstituted with CPR1, CYP53A15 converts benzoic acid to 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3-methoxybenzoic acid to 3-hydroxybenzoic acid. However, when the redox partner is CPR2, both substrates are converted to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Deletion mutants and gene expression in mycelia grown on media with inhibitors indicate that CPR1 is important in primary metabolism, whereas CPR2 plays a role in xenobiotic detoxification.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder associated with selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta. Among the proposed mechanisms of dopaminergic degeneration, oxidative stress is believed to play an important role. On the other hand, L-DOPA used as the main medication in PD and overproduction of dopamine (DA) in striatal neurons could elicit toxic effects due to formation of free radicals (FRs). Adenosine, an endogenous neuromodulator was shown in various experimental models to have neuroprotective properties. In our study, we investigated the role of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptor ligands in hydroxyl radical generation by L-DOPA in the rat striatum. The hydroxyl radical was assayed by HPLC-ED as a product of its reaction with p-hydroxybenzoic acid (PBA). Intrastriatal infusion of L-DOPA(50 microM) markedly increased dialysate level of DA and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). An adenosine A(1) receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 25-50 microM), nonselectiveA(1)/A(2A) receptor agonist 2-chloroadenosine (2-CADO, 50-100 microM), and selective A(2A) receptor agonist CGS 21680 (25-50 microM) decreased the level of 3,4-DHBA. A non-selective A(1)/A(2A) adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine (100 microM) produced similar effect on 3,4-DHBA level. At the same time, CPA and 2-CADO, but not CGS 21680 or caffeine, decreased L-DOPA-induced DA release. The adenosine receptor ligands alone only weakly changed extracellular DA level and did not influence hydroxyl radical production. However, they showed scavenging activity in Fenton reaction in vitro. The primary caffeine metabolite in rodents, 1,3,7-trimethyl uric acid (1,3,7-mUA) decreased both, DA synthesis and 3,4-DHBA level. Thus, paradoxically, both agonists of A(1) receptor and agonist of A(2A) receptor as well as antagonist of A(1) and A(2A) receptors (caffeine), all decreased generation of FRs. Our study suggests that a decrease in hydroxyl radical generation caused by adenosine receptor ligands results from attenuation of L-DOPA-induced DA release or from their scavenging activity.
1. The disposition of the hallucinogen 3,4-dimethoxyamphetamine in vivo was examined in dogs and monkeys. 2. O-Demethylation is important since 3-O-methyl-alpha-methyldopamine (3-methoxy-alpha-methyltyramine) was found in the urine of both species, and traces of alpha-methyldopamine were found in the urine of dogs. 3. Also found in the urine of dogs were 1-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)propan-2-one and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, which are side-chain modified metabolites of alpha-methyldopamine. 4. 1-(3-Methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)propan-2-one, a side-chain modified metabolite of 3-O-methyl-alpha-methyldopamine, was present in the urine of both dogs and monkeys. 5. The 3-O-demethylated isomers 4-O-methyldopamine and 1-(3-hydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)propan-2-one were not detected.
The synthesis of structured phenolic lipids by lipase-catalyzed transesterification of selected phenolic acids, including p-hydroxyphenyl acetic, p-coumaric, sinapic, ferulic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, with triolein was investigated. The highest enzymatic activity (248 nmol esterified phenolic acid/g solid enzyme/min) and bioconversion (62%) was obtained for the transesterification of p-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid with triolein. In addition, the transesterification of p-coumaric with triolein resulted in a higher enzymatic activity (87 nmol esterified phenolic acid/g solid enzyme/min) and bioconversion (46%) than those obtained for the transesterfication of ferulic and sinapic acids. The results also showed that using p-hydroxyphenyl acetic, p-coumaric and ferulic acids as substrate, the maximum bioconversion of phenolic monoacylglycerols was close to that of phenolic diacylglycerols. Although p-coumaric acid had very low radical scavenging activity (2%) compared to that of ferulic acid (62%), the p-co...
Self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of ultra thin organic films have been widely used to control surface properties and in basic studies of interfacial phenomena at electrodeelectrolyte interfaces. The formation, 1 structure, 2 properties 3 and applications of SAMs of n-alkanethiols on metal surfaces 4 have been particularly well studied. Alkyl chains consisting of fewer than 15 carbon atom have been found to be disordered. 5 In the case of the longer chains the order and structural stability are greatly improved, owing to the formation of the hydrogen bonds between the strands of the SAMs. 5 In general, the bonds between the metal and the SAM do not give rise to contact resistance problems associated with the metallic substrates and polymeric films used in polymer modified electrode (PMEs). In the case of the PME, the morphology of the film layer can affect the resistance. 6 The cysteine molecule with three functional groups such as amine, carboxyl and thiol, can give rise to SAMs on gold via the cysteine molecule's thiol group. The remaining functional groups can then be used for further modifications. For example, the amine group can react with a carboxylic functionality to yield an amide bond. Molecules, such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, arterenol, dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, having an o-quinone moiety, exhibit quinone bond redox processes at a formal potential of +0.2 to +0.4 V (vs. SCE) with pendant amino group. The latter three materials could be made to react with carboxylic acids by using a coupling agent such as 1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-3-ethylcarbodiimide (EDC).
Summary A radiochemical micromethod for the determination of catechol- O -methyltransferase (COMT) activity in human red blood cells (RBC) is described. The method avoids artifacts that occur with other assay procedures. Erythrocyte lysates are exposed to a particulate chelating agent (Chelex-100) to remove endogenous divalent cations that inhibit COMT. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid rather than norepinephrine is used as a substrate to increase both the sensitivity and the reproducibility of the procedure. An internal standard of purified rat liver COMT is added to lysates to detect possible variations in endogenous activators or inhibitors of the enzyme. Blood samples from 373 unselected subjects age 16–18 were assayed for RBC COMT activity with this assay procedure. The COMT activity in these blood samples ranged from 3–25 units with a mean activity of 11.3 ± 4.2 (mean ±S.D.).
Assay-guided fractionation of the ethanol extract of Tovomita krukovii resulted in the identification of four new xanthones (1-4) and ten known compounds (5-14). The structures of compounds 1-14 were determined by spectral data to be 3,5-dihydroxy-4-methoxyxanthone (1), 1,3,5,7-tetrahydroxy-8-isoprenylxanthone (2), 1,3,5-trihydroxy-8-isoprenylxanthone (3), 1,5,7-trihydroxy-8-isoprenylxanthone (4), 1,3,7-trihydroxy-2-isoprenylxanthone (5), 1,5-dihydroxyxanthone (6), 1,6-dihydroxy-5-methoxyxanthone (7), 1,3,5-trihydroxyxanthone (8), 1,3,6-trihydroxy-5-methoxyxanthone (9), 1,6-dihydroxy-3,5-dimethoxyxanthone (10), 1,3,7-trihydroxyxanthone (11), 3-geranyl-2,4,6-trihydroxybenzophenone (12), betulinic acid (13), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (14). Compounds 2, 3, 12 and 13 showed inhibitory effects against Candida albicans secreted aspartic proteases (SAP) with IC 50 values of 15 μg/ml, 25 μg/ml, 40 μg/ml, and 6.5 μg/ml, respectively, while the other compounds were inactive. In addition, compound 12 showed activity against C. albicans, C. neoformans, S. aureus and methicillin resistant S. aureus ( MRS).
The ethyl acetate fraction of Artemisia dubia showed a potent inhibitory activity on recombinant human AKR1B10 (rh AKR1B10). Due to its potency, subsequent purification of ethyl acetate fraction led to seven compounds including five dicaffeoylquinic acid (DCQA) derivatives. Compounds were identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1), quercetin 3-O-β-glucose (2), 3,4-DCQA (3), 3,5-DCQA (4), 4,5-DCQA (5), 3,5-DCQA methyl ester (6), and 4,5-DCQA methyl ester (7). A series of DCQA derivatives (3-7) showed inhibitory activity on rhAKR1B10 in the range of IC50 1.24-2.29 μM, whereas 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and quercetin 3-O-β-glucose showed no inhibitory activity on rhAKR1B10.
The title compound is a derivative of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid). 
A personal computer-based system for the automation of kinetic thermometric methods of analysis is reported. The system, of modular design, allows ready acquisition of experimental data and application of the four classical kinetic methods of analysis. The system was used to develop a method for the determination of cobalt at the ng ml−1 level on the basis of its catalytic effect on the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid by hydrogen peroxide at pH 9.7. The working conditions were optimized in order to minimize potential interferences. The relative standard deviation (n = 8) for determination of 2 ng Co ml−1 was 1.1%. The proposed method was applied to the determination of hydroxycobalamin in a pharmaceutical preparation.
Abstract: There is substantial evidence for both metabolic dysfunction and oxidative damage in Huntington's disease (HD). In the present study, we used in vivo microdialysis to measure the conversion of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) as a measure of hydroxyl radical production in a transgenic mouse model of HD, as well as in littermate controls. The conversion of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-DHBA was unchanged in the striatum of transgenic HD mice at baseline. Following administration of the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), there were significant increases in 3,4-DHBA generation in both control and transgenic HD mice, and the increases in the transgenic HD mice were significantly greater than those in controls. Furthermore, administration of 3-NP produced significantly larger striatal lesions in transgenic HD mice than in littermate controls. The present results show increased sensitivity to the mitochondrial toxin 3-NP in transgenic HD mice, which suggests metabolic dysfunction in this mouse model of HD.
A methyltransferase enzyme catalysing the 3-O-methylation of isovanillic acid (3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid) by S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) was identified in Phanerochaete chrysosporium and purified. Gel filtration indicated an M(r) of 71,000 and SDS-PAGE showed that the enzyme was composed of two subunits of M(r) approximately 36,000. Substrate utilization studies demonstrated that the enzyme was highly specific, displaying an exclusive preference for the methylation of the 3-hydroxyl group of several substituted benzoic acids. 3-Hydroxybenzoic acids with a methoxyl or hydroxyl substituent in the 2 or 4 position were the best substrates with isovanillic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids showing the highest rates of methylation. The 3-O-methyltransferase enzyme was induced later in the growth cycle than the 4-O-methyltransferase previously isolated from this fungus, which is believed to have a role in the 4-O-methylation of lignin degradation products. However the function of this meta-specific enzyme, the first phenolic 3-O-methyltransferase isolated from a fungus, remains unclear. The combined activities of the 3- and 4-O-methyltransferase enzymes satisfactorily account for the pattern of SAM-dependent methylating activity shown by whole mycelia to phenolic substrates.
A rapid and sensitive Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (UHPLC-ESI-MS/MS) method was developed and validated to simultaneously determine the concentration of seven phenolic acids (syringic acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid) in rat plasma after oral administration of Echinacea purpurea extract. After mixing with the internal standard (IS), butylparaben, plasma samples were prepared by liquid–liquid extraction with ethyl acetate. The separation was performed using the Agilent Eclipse Plus C18 column (1.8 μm, 2.1 mm × 50 mm) with a gradient system consisting of solution A (0.1% acetic acid in water) and solution B (methanol) at a flow rate of 0.3 mL/min. The detection was accomplished by a multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode with electrospray ionization (ESI). The method was validated in terms of linearity, precision, accuracy, extraction recovery, matrix effect and stability. This method was successfully applied to study the pharmacokinetic properties of the seven compounds after oral administration of Echinacea purpurea extract in rats.
Genomic studies have shown that not only plants but also filamentous fungi contain type III polyketide synthases. To study the function of type III polyketide synthase (AnPKSIII) in Aspergillus niger, a deletion strain (delAnPKSIII) and an overexpression strain (oeAnPKSIII) were constructed in A. niger MA169.4, a derivative of the wild-type (WT) A. niger ATCC 9029 that produces large quantities of gluconic acid. Alterations in the metabolites were analyzed by HPLC when the extract of the overexpression strain was compared with extracts of the WT and deletion strains. Protocatechuic acid (PCA; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3.2 mg/l) was isolated and identified as the main product of AnPKSIII when inductively expressed in A. niger MA169.4. The molecular weight of PCA was 154.1 (m/z 153.1 [M-H](-)), was detected by ESI-MS in the negative ionization mode, and (1)H and (13)C NMR data confirmed its structure.
A methyltransferase enzyme catalysing the 3-0-methylation of isovanillic acid (3-h ydroxy-4-met hoxybenzo ic acid) by S-adenosyl met h ion ine (SAM) was identified in Phanerochaete chrysosporium and purified. Gel filtration indicated an M, of 71 000 and SDS-PAGE showed that the enzyme was composed of two subunits of M, approximately 36000. Substrate utilization studies demonstrated that the enzyme was highly specific, displaying an exclusive preference for the methylation of the 3-hydroxyl group of several substituted benzoic acids. 3-Hydroxybenzoic acids with a methoxyl or hydroxyl substituent in the 2 or 4 position were the best substrates with isovanillic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids showing the highest rates of methylation. The 3-0-methyltransferase enzyme was induced later in the growth cycle than the 4-0-methyltransferase previously isolated from this fungus, which is believed to have a role in the 4-O-methylation of lignin degradation products. However the function of this mefa-specif ic enzyme, the first phenolic 3-0-methyltransferase isolated from a fungus, remains unclear. The combined activities of the 3-and 4-0-methyltransferase enzymes satisfactorily account for the pattern of SAM-dependent methylating activity shown by whole mycelia to phenolic substrates.
Abstract: A rapid and sensitive Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatography Electrospray Ionization Tandem Mass Spectrometry (UHPLC-ESI-MS/MS) method was developed and validated to simultaneously determine the concentration of seven phenolic acids (syringic acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid) in rat plasma after oral administration of Echinacea purpurea extract. After mixing with the internal standard (IS), butylparaben, plasma samples were prepared by liquid-liquid extraction with ethyl acetate. The separation was performed using the Agilent Eclipse Plus C 18 column (1.8 µm, 2.1 mm × 50 mm) with a gradient system consisting of solution A (0.1% acetic acid in water) and solution B (methanol) at a flow rate of 0.3 mL/min. The detection was accomplished by a multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode with electrospray ionization (ESI). The method was validated in terms of linearity, precision, accuracy, extraction recovery, matrix effect and stability. This method was successfully applied to study the pharmacokinetic properties of the seven compounds after oral administration of Echinacea purpurea extract in rats.
E. purpurea also contains a variety of chemical components such as phenolic acids, saponins, flavonoids, alkaloids, polysaccharides, glycoproteins and volatile oils [15, 16] . Phenolic acids have been reported as the major effective components in E. purpurea. These include syringic acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (Figure 1 ), cichoric acid, chlorogenic acid, quinic acid, and so on [17, 18] . On the basis of previous studies, phenolic acids such as cichoric acid, chlorogenic acid and quinic acid have already been determined in rat plasma, so these compounds were not focused on in this work [18] . A series of research showed that they have powerful anti-oxidant and free radical scavenging ability, such as superoxide anion free radical (O2 •− ), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), hydroxyl radical (•OH) [19, 20] . The mechanism of the anti-oxidant effect illustrated that it can directly absorb free radicals, inhibit the activity of oxidase and enhance the activity of SOD [21] . It was demonstrated that phenolic acids have an inhibitory effect on α-amylase, α-glucosidase associated with type 2 diabetes and the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), which suggest that it may provide a new method for the treatment of hyperglycemia and hypertension in some ways [22] . In addition, phenolic acids can treat anti-obesity and upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) [23] . Various analytical methods, including high performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet (HPLC-UV) [24] , high performance thin layer chromatography (HPTLC) [25] , colorimetry [26] , liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) [9] and UHPLC-MS/MS [27] have been used in the qualitative or quantitative analysis of these phenolic acids. However, these methods have mainly focused on the general components with high concentrations in E. purpurea. This work developed a rapid and sensitive method for the simultaneous determination of syringic acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid in rat plasma, and it may help to evaluate the pharmacokinetic properties of E. purpurea effectively. Meanwhile, this is the first study to describe these phenolic acids using UHPLC-ESI-MS/MS in rat plasma after oral administration of the E. purpurea extract. Various analytical methods, including high performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet (HPLC-UV) [24] , high performance thin layer chromatography (HPTLC) [25] , colorimetry [26] , liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) [9] and UHPLC-MS/MS [27] have been used in the qualitative or quantitative analysis of these phenolic acids. However, these methods have mainly focused on the general components with high concentrations in E. purpurea. This work developed a rapid and sensitive method for the simultaneous determination of syringic acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid in rat plasma, and it may help to evaluate the pharmacokinetic properties of E. purpurea effectively. Meanwhile, this is the first study to describe these phenolic acids using UHPLC-ESI-MS/MS in rat plasma after oral administration of the E. purpurea extract.
Using the L5178Y mouse lymphoma cell thymidine kinase locus and the Salmonella his locus assays, the mutagenic potentials of several catecholamines and related compounds were examined. No supplementary metabolic activation systems were used. In the mouse lymphoma assay, the dihydroxybenzenes catechol and hydroquinone had similar and appreciable mutagenic potentials, whereas resorcinol was less active. Derivatives of catechol, such as dopamine and epinephrine, were mutagenic, whereas the related monohydroxylated compounds tyramine and synephrine were inactive. The primary amine, arterenol, and the corresponding secondary amine, epinephrine, induced similar mutagenic responses. Carboxylation of the side chain of dopamine, giving L-dopa, reduced the maximum mutagenic response. The introduction of charged groups directly on to the aromatic ring also reduced mutagenic activity, while an intervening methylene reversed this effect. Thus, 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid was more active than 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The compound active at the lowest doses was 4-tert-butyl catechol. The activities of these compounds are highly dependent upon substituent groups. Experiments with superoxide dismutase gave circumstantial evidence for some of the mutagenic activity being due to superoxide anion. Active oxygen species might be responsible for some of the observed effects, but this cannot be concluded from the superoxide dismutase experiments. Mutagenic responses in Salmonella were very low but were significant for L-dopa in three strains and for epinephrine and arterenol in one strain. Limited DNA association studies of 14C-dopamine suggest interactions in L5178Y and Salmonella cells and in mouse liver. The mutagenicity of dopamine in L5178Y is reduced by high serum concentrations during the exposure period, while the apparent association with DNA is unaffected.
Abstract Phytochemical investigation on the leaves of Labisia pumila (Myrsinaceae), an important medicinal herb in Malaysia, has led to the isolation of 1- O -methyl-6-acetoxy-5-(pentadec-10 Z -enyl)resorcinol ( 1 ), labisiaquinone A ( 2 ) and labisiaquinone B ( 3 ). Along with these, 16 known compounds including 1- O -methyl-6-acetoxy-5-pentadecylresorcinol ( 4 ), 5-(pentadec-10 Z -enyl)resorcinol ( 5 ), 5-(pentadecyl)resorcinol ( 6 ), (−)-loliolide ( 7 ), stigmasterol ( 8 ), 4-hydroxyphenylethylamine ( 9 ), 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid ( 10 ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( 11 ), (+)-catechin ( 12 ), (−)-epicatechin ( 13 ), kaempferol-3- O -α-rhamnopyranosyl-7- O -β-glycopyranoside ( 14 ), kaempferol-4′- O- β-glycopyranoside ( 15 ), quercetin-3- O -α-rhamnopyranoside ( 16 ), kaempferol-3- O -α-rhamnopyranoside ( 17 ), (9 Z ,12 Z )-octadeca-9,12-dienoic acid ( 18 ) and stigmasterol-3- O - β -glycopyranoside ( 19 ) were also isolated. The structures of these compounds were established on the basis of 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy techniques ( 1 H, 13 C, COSY, HSQC, NOESY and HMBC experiments), mass spectrometry and chemical derivatization. Among the constituents tested 1 and 4 exhibited strongest cytotoxic activity against the PC3, HCT116 and MCF-7 cell lines (IC 50 values ⩽10 μM), and they showed selectivity towards the first two-cell lines relative to the last one.
The fruit of Clausena lansium (wampee) is popular in southern China and warm areas of the world. Our chemical study on the fruit yielded three jasmonoid glucosides, 12-beta-D-glucopyranosyloxy-6-epi-7-isocucurbic acid-1,6-lactone (1), 12-beta-D-glucopyranosyloxyjasmonic acid (2) and 12-hydroxyjasmonic acid (3), two sesquiterpenes, (+)-curcumen-12-oic acid (4) and (+)-(E)-alpha-santalen-12-oic acid (5), two coumarins, xanthotoxol (6) and indicolactone (7), in addition to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (8), 5-hydroxymethylfuraldehyde (9), isopropyl beta-D-glucopyranoside (10) and stigmasterol (11). Their structures were determined by spectroscopic methods. Compound 1 was a new metabolite and the others excluding 6 were reported from the species for the first time. Compounds 1-7 were evaluated for antioxidant and antibacterial activities. Among them, compound 6 showed antioxidant activity in ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) and DPPH radical scavenging assays as well as antibacterial activity against Staphyloccocus aureus and Shigella dysenteriae, while compound 5 was active against Bacillus cereus. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Abstract Mitochondrial preparations from rat heart and liver were able to prenylate 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (vanillic acid). Rat heart slices when incubated with 3,4-dihydroxy [U- 14 C] benzoic acid could incorporate the label to ubiquinone. Rat heart slices were also able to convert 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acids, indicating alternate pathways for ubiquinone biosynthesis in mammals.
Five compounds were isolated from the fruits of Hydnocarpus hainanensis Merr. Sleum. (Flacourtiaceae). Their structures were determined by spectroscopic analysis including MS and NMR. The isolates were identified as taraktophyllin ( 1 ), hydnocarpic acid ( 2 ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzyl alcohol ( 3 ), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ( 4 ) and 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid ( 5 ).
Abstract Equilibrium studies of beryllium with 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and gallic acid in an aqueous solution at 310.15 K, an ionic strength of 0.15 mol·dm− 3 NaCl and pH 2.5 to 11.0 were investigated by the pH-potentiometric method. Stability constants of the complexes were determined by HyperQuad2008 and presented as logβ. Contributing binding sites of these ligands were evaluated by comparing its logβ with some structurally related ligands such as catechol and salicylic acid. Spectrophotometric measurements were done to confirm the formation of the complex species. Geometry optimization and frequency analysis of the complexes were performed by using Gaussian09W program to verify the contributing binding sites. The results indicate that the ability of ligands in preventing the hydrolysis of Be2 + follows the order: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid > 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid > gallic acid.
Abstract The contributions of each of the two hydroxyl groups to the ionization and solvation processes for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were studied by considering the enthalpy values of these processes as a linear combination of those related to the same processes for the 2,3-dihydroxy and 2,4-dihydroxy derivatives in water-dimethylsulphoxide mixtures with the mole fraction of dimethylsulphoxide ranging from 0 to 0.8. For this purpose, diparametric and monoparametric regression analyses were used. In these analyses, the total standard deviations, slope and intercept standard deviations, correlation coefficients, null hypotheses a = 0, b = 0, r = 0 (where a is the intercept, b the slope and r the regression coefficient), the Student t test and F test of the above cited values were taken into account. Particular attention was paid to the presence of the so-called collinearity between the explanatory variables. The introduction of a hydroxyl group in position 3 destabilizes the benzene ring, overcoming the stabilization effect caused by the hydroxyl in position 4.
A series of cinnamic acids along with their corresponding benzoate analogues were tested for their ability to scavenge hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), by using a highly sensitive, peroxyoxalate chemiluminescence assay. Among benzoic acid derivatives, vanillic acid (3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid) was found to be the most efficient H(2)O(2) scavenger with its hydrogen peroxide scavenging activity (SA(HP)) being 170.20 microM(-1), whereas protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) exhibited the weakest activity (5.90 microM(-1)). Caffeic acid (3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid) was the strongest antioxidant amongst cinnamate derivatives with a SA(HP) = 8.2 microM(-1), as opposed to m-coumaric acid (2-hydroxycinnamic acid), which was found to be a poor hydrogen peroxide scavenger (SA(HP) = 0.18 microM(-1)). Comparison between the two groups revealed that benzoate derivatives are much stronger hydrogen peroxide quenchers in relation with their cinnamate analogues, and this finding was discussed on a basis of structure-activity relationships and comparative assessment of other antioxidant characteristics.
Aspecies ofBacillus, tentatively identified asB.circulans, degrades protocatechuic acidbya novel reaction involving meta-fission between C2andC3ofthe benzene nucleus. 2-Hydroxymuconic semialdehyde isthendegraded topyruvate andacetaldehyde byenzymatic reactions described inprevious work. Protocatechuate 2,3-oxygenase exhibits a rather narrow substrate specificity; themethyl andethyl esters ofprotocatechuic acid areoxidized, butother substrates for ring-fission oxygenases,notably catechol, gallic acid, andhomoprotocatechuic acid, arenotattacked. Intheir survey oftheaerobic pseudomonads, Stanier etal.(15)showedthatthemodeof cleavage ofthebenzene ring ofprotocatechuic acid(3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) isataxonomically significant character. Thus,after growth with4-hydroxybenzoate ascarbon source, all thestrains ofanyonespecies ofPseudomonas oxidized protocatechuate bythesamemechanism. Moreover, ortho cleavage ofthis substrate between C3andC4(8)wascharacteristic ofthe entire fluorescent group, whereas metacleavage wasconfined tothenonfluorescent organisms Pseudomonas acidovorans andP.testosteroni. Atthetimeofitsdiscovery inastrain ofthe last-named species (S.Trippett, S.Dagley, and D.A.Stopher, Biochem. J.76:9P, 1960), andin later investigations (3), metacleavage ofprotocatechuate wasshowntooccur between C4and C5 ofthebenzene nucleus. Inthepresent investigation, itisshownthatcell extracts of Bacillus circulans form2-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde fromprotocatechuate, apparently byoxidative cleavage between C2 andC3, followed byrapid decarboxylation oftheproductofring-fission.
Increasing the blood's capacity for oxygen transport by erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) constitutes a prohibited procedure of performance enhancement according to the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). The advent of orally bio-available small-molecule ESAs such as hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) stabilizers in the development of novel anti-anaemia therapies expands the list of potential ESA doping techniques. Here, the erythropoiesis-stimulating properties and doping relevance of experimental HIF-stabilizers, such as cobaltous chloride, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or GSK360A, amongst others, are discussed. The stage of clinical trials is reviewed for the anti-anaemia drug candidates FG-2216, FG-4592, GSK1278863, AKB-6548, and BAY85-3934. Currently available methods and strategies for the determination of selected HIF stabilizers in sports drug testing are based on liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS). For the support of further analytical assay development, patents claiming distinct compounds for the use in HIF-mediated therapies are evaluated and exemplary molecular structures of HIF stabilizers presented. Moreover, data concerning the erythropoiesis-enhancing effects of the GATA inhibitors K7174 and K11706 as well as the lipidic small-molecule ESA PBI-1402 are elucidated the context of doping analysis.
Abstract A chitosan resin derivatized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid moiety (CCTS-DHBA resin) was newly synthesized for the collection/concentration of trace uranium by using cross-linked chitosan (CCTS) as base material, and the adsorption behavior of uranium as well as 60 elements on the resin was examined by passing the sample solutions through a mini-column packed with the resin. After the elution of the collected elements on the resin with 1 M HNO 3 , the eluates were measured by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). The CCTS-DHBA resin can adsorb several metal cations and several oxoanionic elements at appropriate pH. Among these metal ions, uranium shows an excellent adsorption behavior on this resin. Uranium as UO 2 2+ species can be adsorbed on the resin by chelating mechanism with adsorption capacity of 330 mg g −1 resin. Through the column treatment, the complete removal of large amounts of alkali and alkaline earth matrices without any loss of adsorption efficiency over prolonged usage were achieved with this resin. The CCTS-DHBA resin was applied to the adsorption/collection of uranium in tap water, river water and seawater samples with satisfactory results. The validation of the proposed method was carried out by analyzing uranium in the standard reference materials of SLRS-4, CASS-4, and NASS-5 after passing through the CCTS-DHBA resin, and the results showed good agreement with the certified values.
A chitosan resin derivatized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid moiety (CCTS-DHBA resin) was newly synthesized for the collection/concentration of trace uranium by using cross-linked chitosan (CCTS) as base material, and the adsorption behavior of uranium as well as 60 elements on the resin was examined by passing the sample solutions through a mini-column packed with the resin. After the elution of the collected elements on the resin with 1 M HNO 3 , the eluates were measured by inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS).
In the yeasts C. albicans, C. tropicalis, and C. stellatoidea but not in C. krusei, R.rubra, and S. cerevisiae enzyme activity was found by which--as by the catechol-O-methyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.6) found in the liver--the O-methylation of epinephrine to metanephrine and paranephrine, of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid to 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid and 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid, and of 6,7-dihydroxycoumarin to 7-hydroxy-6-methoxycoumarin and 6-hydroxy-7-methoxycoumarin is catalysed. When the substrates 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, or 6,7-dihydroxycoumarin or epinephrine were incubated in the presence of S-adenosyl-L-[methyl-14C]methionine and S-adenosylmethionine hydrogensulfate with a 100 000 X g supernatant of C. albicans, C. tropicalis or C. stellatoidea the corresponding O-methylethers were detected in the extracts of the incubation medium by thin-layer chromatography. Final identification of the isomeric radioactive O-methylethers obtained from 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 6,7-dihydroxycoumarin was performed after thin-layer chromatographic separation by the reversed isotope dilution technique. The radioactive m- and p-O-methyl derivatives from epinephrine were separated by thin-layer chromatography and then cleaved with periodate to the corresponding aldehydes which were also identified mainly by the reversed isotope dilution technique.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the caffeic acid (1) and ester derivatives (2-10) against Candida albicans biofilm and to investigate whether these compounds are able to inhibit the biofilm formation or destroy pre-formed biofilm. Caffeic acid ester 7, cinnamic acid ester 8 and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ester 10 are more active than fluconazole, used as reference drug, both on biofilm in formation with MIC50 values of 32, 32 and 16μg/mL, respectively, and in the early stage of biofilm formation (4h) with MIC50 values of 64, 32 and 64μg/mL, respectively. These esters result also more active than fluconazole on mature biofilm (24h), especially 8 and 10 with MIC50 values of 64μg/mL.
A method has been established to determine 8 kinds of acromatic carboxylic acids by β-cyclodextrin modified capillary zone electrophoresis.Under the optimized conditions,the 8 kinds of analytes were well separated in 12min.A good linear relationship existed between peak area and concentration in the 2～100、1～100、2～100、1～100、2.2～110、4～200、2～100 and 2.4～120μg·mL~(-1) concentration range for benzoic acid,2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid,3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, cinnamic acid,2-nitrobenzoic acid,3-nitrobenzoic acid and 4-nitrobenzoic acid,respectively.The detection limits, based on three times noise were 0.2、0.2、0.3、0.2、0.5、0.8、0.3 and 0.4μg·mL~(-1),respectively.The developed method was applied to simulated sample analysis,the results were in good agreement with the real value.
Aromatic hydroxylation from the reaction between hydroxyl radical and salicylate or its related compounds has been often utilized as a marker for the generation of hydroxyl radicals. We have investigated several technical aspects of applying this method to study hydroxyl radical production during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion using the hydroxylation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) to form 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA). 4-HBA was administered to rats either through intravenous infusion, or by way of an in vivo microdialysis probe implanted in the brain. Dialysate containing 3,4-DHBA was collected and analyzed by HPLC with electrochemical detection. An endogenous compound was found to co-elute with 3,4 -DHBA but could be separated by varying the chromatographic conditions. Because of interrupted blood flow during cerebral ischemia and reperfusion, delivery of 4-HBA through the microdialysis probe is a preferred method to systemic administration such as intravenous infusion. It is concluded that the oxidation of 4-HBA to 3,4-DHBA can be a reliable and accurate indicator for the formation of hydroxyl radical in vivo if the experiments are well designed to avoid potential pitfalls associated with technical difficulties of the method.
Abstract O-Methylmoschatoline, liriodenine and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid isolated from the barks of Cananga odorata showed antibacterial activities against a number of Gram (+) and Gram (−) bacteria. The compounds also showed antifungal and cytotoxic activities.
Ziziphus jujuba (jujube) seeds were extracted with 60% (v/v) aqueous ethanol assisted by homogenization and sonication followed by fractionation into n-hexane, chloroform, ethyl acetate, n-butanol, and water. The ethyl acetate fraction exhibited the highest levels of total phenolics (102.05 mg gallic acid equivalents/g fraction), total flavonoids (35.43 mg catechin equivalents/g fraction), and antioxidant capacity (271.67 and 66.02 mg vitamin C equivalents/g fraction in respective ABTS and DPPH assays) among the fractions tested. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of the ethyl acetate fraction revealed 12 phenolic compounds: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, methyldopa, p-coumaric acid, dihydro-p-coumaric acid, rutin, isoquercetin, kaempferol 3-O-rutinoside, 3-O-cis-p-coumaroylalphitolic acid, 2-O-cis-p-coumaroylalphitolic acid, 3-O-trans-p-coumaroylalphitolic acid, 3-O-cis-p-coumaroylmaslinic acid, and 3-O-trans-p-coumaroylmaslinic acid. Phenolic compounds generally increased viability, reduced lactate dehydrogenase release, and attenuated intracellular oxidative stress in PC-12 cells. The results of this study suggest that Z. jujuba seeds may serve as an effective source of antioxidative agents to reduce oxidative stress and enhance neuronal cell viability.
Hyperpigmentation is considered by many to be a beauty problem and is responsible for photoaging. To treat this skin condition, medicinal cosmetics containing tyrosinase inhibitors are used, resulting in skin whitening. In this study, taraxerol methyl ether (1), spinasterol (2), 6-hydroxyflavanone (3), (+)-dihydrokaempferol (4), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5), taraxerol (6), taraxerone (7), and lupeol acetate (8) were isolated from Manilkara zapota bark. Their chemical structures were elucidated by analysis of their nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS) data, and by comparing them with data found in the literature. The in vitro antityrosinase, antioxidant, and cytotoxic activities of the isolated compounds (1–8) were evaluated. (+)-Dihydrokaempferol (4) exhibited higher monophenolase inhibitory activity than both kojic acid and α-arbutin. However, it showed diphenolase inhibitory activity similar to kojic acid. (+)-Dihydrokaempferol (4) was a competitive inhibitor of both monophenolase and diphenolase activities. It exhibited the strongest 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2′-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS), and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) activities of the isolated compounds. Furthermore, (+)-dihydrokaempferol (4) also demonstrated potent cytotoxicity in breast carcinoma cell line (BT474), lung bronchus carcinoma cell line (Chago-K1), liver carcinoma cell line (HepG2), gastric carcinoma cell line (KATO-III), and colon carcinoma cell line (SW620). These results suggest that M. zapota bark might be a good potential source of antioxidants and tyrosinase inhibitors for applications in cosmeceutical products.
Organic compounds are known to interfere with the precipitation of trihydroxy aluminium (gibbsite) in the Bayer process. Studies have been carried out of the effect of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid on precipitation and of the beneficial effect that can be achieved by oxidising the acid. Measurements of precipitate yields both in the presence of the acid and of products obtained by oxidising the acid were made. Oxidation in the presence of various metal ions was also examined. The yield of precipitate was found to decrease in the order Cu2+ (1·9 mM) > Fe3+ (2·2 mM) > blank (no added organics) > Mn4+ (44·3 and 2·3 mM) > Mn2+ (2·3 mM) > Mn2+ (44·3 mM) ≈ uncatalyset oxidation > Fe3+ (43·5 mM) > Cu2+ (38·2 mM) > untreated sample. This relative ordering was generally unaffected by reaction temperature or oxygen partial pressure. Soluble manganese salts were formed by partial dissolution of MnO2 in the alkaline solutions. These salts were required for oxidation of the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid to products which, collectively, did not poison the trihydroxy aluminium precipitation process.
Abstract Sclerotized oothecae from four species of cockroaches, Periplaneta americana, P. fuliginosa, Blatta orientalis and Blattella germanica , were examined by solid-state 13 C-nuclear magnetic resonance and chemical analyses. The oothecae were composed of protein, water, calcium oxalate, diphenolic compounds, lipid, and uric acid. Calcium oxalate was the major soluble component in egg cases of P. americana, P. fuliginosa , and B. orientalis . Oothecae of B. germanica had approx. 10-fold less calcium oxalate and extractable diphenols than the other species. The major diphenolic compound extracted in cold dilute perchloric acid was 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Exuviae from P. americana, B. germanica, Gromphadorhina portentosa, Blaberus craniifer , and Leucophaea maderae also were examined by solid-state 13 C-NMR. They contained protein, diphenols, and lipid, as well as chitin, which accounted for 30–42% of the organic content, depending upon the species.
Equilibrium structures of all derivatized systems of p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,5-dimethoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid and calculated structural and energetic molecular descriptors were determined at the B3LYP/6-31+G(d) density functional theoretical level in an attempt to study their structure-activity relationships (SAR). The theoretical antioxidant activity trend, derived in terms of hydrogen-donating capacity against radicals in lipid systems, is in excellent agreement with the experimental one. The lower antioxidant activity of benzoates, experimentally found relative to the homologous cinnamates, could be due to (i) their lower spin delocalization, (ii) their higher calculated heats of formation values in forming radicals (ΔHOF), and (iii) the much stronger electron-withdrawing effect of the-COOH group than-CH=CHCOOH. The low calculated dipole moment values of the global minimum structures of the antioxidants could facilitate their solubilities in nonpolar solvents, hence the ease of hydrogen abstraction. However, highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) eigenvalues can neither predict antioxidant activity nor differentiate the same activity between two series of structurally related compounds. Again, density functional theory calculations provide a good molecular descriptor, ΔHOF, to correlate with the antioxidant activity in molecules showing similar structural characteristics.
Hyperpigmentation is considered by many to be a beauty problem and is responsible for photoaging. To treat this skin condition, medicinal cosmetics containing tyrosinase inhibitors are used, resulting in skin whitening. In this study, taraxerol methyl ether (1), spinasterol (2), 6-hydroxyflavanone (3), (+)-dihydrokaempferol (4), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5), taraxerol (6), taraxerone (7), and lupeol acetate (8) were isolated from Manilkara zapota bark. Their chemical structures were elucidated by analysis of their nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS) data, and by comparing them with data found in the literature. The in vitro antityrosinase, antioxidant, and cytotoxic activities of the isolated compounds (1-8) were evaluated. (+)-Dihydrokaempferol (4) exhibited higher monophenolase inhibitory activity than both kojic acid and α-arbutin. However, it showed diphenolase inhibitory activity similar to kojic acid. (+)-Dihydrokaempferol (4) was a competitive inhibitor of both monophenolase and diphenolase activities. It exhibited the strongest 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH), 2,2 -azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS), and ferric reducing antioxidant power (FRAP) activities of the isolated compounds. Furthermore, (+)-dihydrokaempferol (4) also demonstrated potent cytotoxicity in breast carcinoma cell line (BT474), lung bronchus carcinoma cell line (Chago-K1), liver carcinoma cell line (HepG2), gastric carcinoma cell line (KATO-III), and colon carcinoma cell line (SW620). These results suggest that M. zapota bark might be a good potential source of antioxidants and tyrosinase inhibitors for applications in cosmeceutical products.
Ferulic acid (FA) and para-coumaric acid (p-CoA), members of the hydroxycinnamic acid family, are the main phenolic compounds in cereal bran, one of the major fiber sources in a healthy diet [8] . p-CoA is the most abundant isomer of cinnamic acid, widely found in edible plants such as peanuts, tomatoes, carrots. p-CoA is reported to have antitumor and anti-mutagenic activities [9] . Vanillic acid, a benzoic acid derivative, is an oxidized form of vanillin produced during the conversion of vanillin into ferulic acid. Vanillic acid is one of the major components of "natural vanilla" aroma and it is used as a flavoring agent. It has also an antioxidant and antimicrobial activity and therefore it can be considered as a potential food preservative [10, 11] . Colonic bacteria can convert flavonoids into large number of simple phenolic acids that can be absorbed into the circulation, and exert biological effects in the body. Previous publication indicated that quercitin is metabolized to 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, whose structure is analogous to that of caffeic acid, but it lacks a double bond in the aliphatic chain. It also exerts anti-oxidant properties, antiplatelet activity and anxiolytic activity [12, 13] .
The interactions of aluminium(III) ion with the triprotic catechol derivatives (H3L), 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (3,4-DHPA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), and 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid (3,4-DHHCA) were investigated in aqueous solution at 25.0 degrees C. The Calvin-Bjerrum titration method was adopted for the determination of formation constants of proton-ligand and aluminium(III)-ligand complexes. Potentiometric and spectroscopic results indicated that these catechol derivatives exhibit a true bidentate character. The chelation occurs via their catecholate sites, with the exception of 2,3-DHBA. In the case of 2,3-DHBA complexes, the dominant species are either the salicylate type (COO-, O-) or catecholate type (O-, O-) complex. The protonation constants of ligands and their formation constants of Al(III) complexes were also correlated. The order of decreasing stabilities of complexes is: 3,4-DHPA>3,4-DHBA>3,4-DHHCA>2,3-DHBA.
The tetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloids salsolidine (1-methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline) and 1-carboxysalsoline (1-carboxy-1-methyl-6-hydroxy-7-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline), which are themselves not substrates for the enzyme catechol-O-methyltransferase, are - contrary to a hitherto existing view - able to inhibit competitively the methylation of the catecholamine metabolite 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid by the enzyme enriched from rat liver. The inhibitor constants were determined to be Ki = 0.19 mM for salsolidine and Ki = 0.44 mM for 1-carboxysalsoline.
A microorganism capable of degrading DL-mandelic acid was isolated from sewage sediment of enrichment culture and was identified as Pseudomonas convexa. It was found to metabolize mandelic acid by a new pathway involving 4-hydroxymandelic acid, 4-hydroxybenzaldehyde, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as aromatic intermediates. All the enzymes of the pathway were demonstrated in cell-free extracts. L-Mandelate-4-hydroxylase, a soluble enzyme, requires tetrahydropteridine, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, reduced form, and Fe2+ for its activity. The next enzyme, L-4-hydroxymandelate oxidase (decarboxylating), a particulate enzyme, requires flavine adenine dinucleotide and Mn2+ for its activity. A nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent, as well as a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent, benzaldehyde dehydrogenase has been resolved and partially purified.
The concentration of different phenolic compounds was measured in Spanish Albarino and Portuguese Alvarinho and Loureiro white wines by capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE), in order to characterize them. Although all samples presented the same qualitative pattern (characterized by tyrosol; (–)-epicatechin; syringic acid; ferulic acid; p-coumaric acid; caffeic acid, gallic acid; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; cis-coumaroyl tartaric acid (COUTA); trans-COUTA; trans-caffeoyl tartaric acid (CAFTA), and hydroxycinnamic esters), some quantitative differences were observed. When samples were analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), in order to compare the results obtained by both techniques, no significant qualitative or quantitative differences were obtained. Nevertheless, CZE proved to be a more convenient technique for the routinary analyses of these wines, due to better separation of the different compounds, better peak shapes, and higher speed than HPLC.
In the present study phytochemical investigation of the methanol extract of the stem bark of Horsfieldia superba led to the isolation of twenty compounds (1-20), of which three (1-3) were new. However, compounds 2 and 3 were previously reported as synthetic alpha,beta-lactones. The compounds were characterized as (-)-3,4',7-trihydroxy-3'-methoxyflavan (1), (-)-5,6-dihydro-6-undecyl-2H-pyran-2-one (2), and (-)-5,6-dihydro-6-tridecyl-2H-pyran-2-one (3). Seventeen other known compounds were also isolated and identified as (-)-viridiflorol (4), hexacosanoic acid (5), beta-sitosterol (6), methyl 2,4-dihydroxy-6-methylbenzoate (methylorsellinate) (7), methyl 2,4-dihydroxy-3,6-dimethylbenzoate (8), (-)-4'-hydroxy-7-methoxyflavan (9), (-)-4',7-dihydroxyflavan (10), (-)-4',7-dihydroxy-3'-methoxyflavan (11), (+)-3,4',7-trihydroxyflavan (12), (-)-catechin (13), (-)-epicatechin (14), (-)-7-hydroxy-3',4'-methylenedioxyflavan (15), 2',3,4-trihydroxy-4'-methoxydihydrochalcone (16), 3',4',7-trihydroxyflavone (17), (+)-4'-hydroxy-7-methoxyflavanone (18), hexadecanoic acid (palmitic acid) (19) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (20). The structures of the compounds were fully characterized by various physical methods (melting point, optical rotation), spectral (UV, IR, ID and 2D NMR) and mass spectrometric techniques. In vitro assay of compounds 2 and 3 demonstrated moderate cytotoxic activities against human prostate (PC-3), colon (HCT-116) and breast (MCF-7) cancer cells, while the chloroform and ethyl acetate fractions of H. superba were found to exhibit moderate AChE inhibitory activity (IC50 72 and 60 microg/mL).
After demonstrating the lack of effectiveness of standard antibiotics against the acquired antibiotic resistance of Bacillus cereus (NCTC 10989), Escherichia coli (NCTC 1186), and Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC 12715), we showed that the following natural substances were antibacterial against these resistant pathogens: cinnamon oil, oregano oil, thyme oil, carvacrol, (S)-perillaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (β-resorcylic acid), and 3,4-dihydroxyphenethylamine (dopamine). Exposure of the three pathogens to a dilution series of the test compounds showed that oregano oil was the most active substance. The oils and pure compounds exhibited exceptional activity against B. cereus vegetative cells, with oregano oil being active at nanogram per milliliter levels. In contrast, activities against B. cereus spores were very low. Activities of the test compounds were in the following approximate order: oregano oil > thyme oil carvacrol > cinnamon oil > perillaldehyde > dopamine > β-resorcylic acid. The order of susceptibilities of the pathogens to inactivation was as follows: B. cereus (vegetative) >> S. aureus E. coli >> B. cereus (spores). Some of the test substances may be effective against antibiotic-resistant bacteria in foods and feeds.
The results showed significant (P < 0.05) differences in biochemical components among different parts of white color fruit morphs (WCFM) and black color fruit morphs (BCFM). Among the tested parts of myrtle plants, the highest (P < 0.05) amounts of most biochemical components were observed in leaves. With view exceptions, BCFM leaves contain high (P < 0.05) amounts of phenolic, flavonoids, phenolic compounds, and minerals compared to WCFM leaves. The total flavonoids and phenolic contents were found in the ranges of 93.86 mg (stems) to 261.34 mg catechol/g (leaves), 101.67 mg (stems) to 376.82 mg catechol/g (leaves), 103.56 (fruits) to 224.57 mgGAE/g (leaves), and 138.21 (fruits) to 298.63 mgGAE/g (leaves) for WCFM and BCFM, respectively. The key fatty acids of WCFM and BCFM fruit oils were palmitic, stearic, oleic and linoleic acids. The major phenolic compounds and minerals of WCFM and BCFM were 1,2-dihydroxybenzene, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, ( +)-catechin, syringic, gallic acid, apigenin 7 glucoside, rutin trihydrate, t-ferulic, caffeic acids, and Ca, K, Mg and Mn, respectively.
In this study, the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) from Terminalia nigrovenulosa bark (TNB) was purified and its in vitro nematicidal activity was investigated against Meloidogyne incognita. The purification of 3,4-DHBA used a silica gel column and Sephadex LH-20 chromatography combined with thin-layer chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography. Structural identification of the 3,4-DHBA was conducted using (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), (13)C NMR, and liquid chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Nematicidal activity bioassays revealed that 3,4-DHBA treatment resulted in 33.3, 47.5, 72.5 and 94.2% J2 mortality at 0.125, 0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/ml, respectively after 12 h incubation. J2 mortality was increased significantly (P < 0.0001) with increasing incubation time in the range of 54.2-94.2% from 3 to 9 h after incubation with 3,4-DHBA (1.0 mg/ml), but with no significant difference observed where the incubation time was increased from 9 to 12 h. The 3,4-DHBA treatment resulted in 33.3, 65.0, 76.7 and 85.0% hatch inhibition at 0.125, 0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/ml, respectively, 3 days after incubation. Changes in the shape of the eggs were determined after incubation for 1 day with a 3,4-DHBA concentration of 1.0 mg/ml.
To determine the regulatory role of prolyl hydroxylation in intracellular cardiac procollagen turnover, we examined the effects of prolyl 4-hydroxylase inhibitors ( α,α ′-dipyridil, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester, pyridine 2,4-dicarboxylic acid ethyl ester) and ascorbic acid on procollagen metabolism by cultured, neonatal rat cardiac fibroblasts. Ascorbate-deficient fibroblasts showed decreased rates of prolyl hydroxylation and total collagen accumulation without a significant reduction in α 1 (I) and α 1 (III) mRNA levels. The fraction of newly synthesized procollagens degraded intracellularly was also substantially increased in ascorbate-deficient cells (50±7 v 30±3% in ascorbate-deficient v control fibroblasts; P α 1 (I) polypeptide into the cell culture medium, and decreased extracellular Type I collagen deposition. Similar results were obtained by treating cells with α,α ′-dipyridil (300 μ m ), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (400 μ m ) in the presence of ascorbate. A major portion of the enhanced degradation of newly synthesized procollagens occurred within acidic intracellular compartments as indicated by the inhibition of procollagen degradation by chloroquine (25 μ m ). Inhibition of procollagen secretion by colchicine (0.5 μ g/ml) enhanced the diversion to, and subsequent intracellular degradation of underhydroxylated procollagens in cardiac fibroblast lysosomes. We conclude that inactivation of prolyl 4-hydroxylase increases intracellular accumulation and intralysosomal degradation of newly synthesized cardiac procollagen polypeptides. These observations suggest that procollagen prolyl hydroxylation may be important in the regulation of collagen accumulation by cardiac interstitial cells during fibrotic processes in vivo .
The composition of phenolic compounds was studied in the cones and berries of coniferous species which are growing in Turkey. Total amount of phenolics was determined as 0.68–3.69 mg g−1 in Abies species, 0.06–1.70 mg g−1 in Pinus species, 0.54 mg g−1 in Picea orientalis, 3.31–6.39 mg g−1 in Cupressus species and 0.20–0.60 mg g−1 in Juniperus species. Under the same experimental conditions no detectable amount of phenolic compound was found in the cones of Cedrus Libani and in some Juniperus berries. Flavanoids, especially catechin, were the predominant compounds in all of the cones and berries. Lignans were determined only in the cones of Abies species. 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was found in all cones except P. brutia and Picea orientalis.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid were separately incubated with L-methionine-methyl-C14 in the presence of rat liver or kidney homogenate. In each case, the radioactive metabolite separated by paper chromatography was found to have migrating properties similar to those of the 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenolic acid. This reaction was enhanced by the addition of ATP, Mg++, and reduced glutathione. When 3-hydroxybenzoic acid was incubated in this medium no methylated derivative was obtained. Preliminary experiments indicated that the enzymatic activity was contained mostly in the supernatant fraction. It was also noted that liver homogenate was much more active than kidney homogenate in methylating catechol acids.
Seven compounds were isolated from the ethanol extract of the leaves of Mangifera persiciformis.They were identified as methyl gallate(1),gallic acid(2),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3),quercetin(4),kaempferol-3-O-β-D-glucoside(5),quercetin-3-O-β-D-glucoside(6) and mangiferin(7) by analysis of their spectroscopic data and by comparison with those reported on the literature.Among them,compounds 1,3,5 and 6 were obtained from this plant for the first time.
The tallest cactus in the United States, the saguaro, is restricted to southern Arizona in this country. When the saguaro is wounded, either mechanically (knives, rocks) or naturally (birds, wind), it responds by forming a hard tissue layer (callus) around the injured area. Paper and thin layer chromatographic analyses together with ultra­ violet spectral analysis of saguaro callus extracts indi­ cated the presence of several phenolic acids. Among these were: 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3-methoxy-if-hydroxybenzoic acid. Following the same procedure, extracts of the pulpy cortex indicated the presence of 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid, and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxycinnamic acid. One flavonoid, quercetin, and a second unidentified flavonoid were found to occur in the callus. There was apparently no flavonoid content in the vascular elements of the cactus, the woody ribs. Although no structural identification of alkaloids was attempted, chromatographic analysis of the callus, the ribs, and the intermediate pulpy area indicated the presence of at least five alkaloids. Previously, only one alkaloid, carnegine, had been found in the saguaro.
The water extract of the aerial parts of Orostachys japonicus A. Berger showed the inhibitory activity against HIV-1 protease. From the same parts of O. japonicus, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid and methyl gallate, together with flavonoids, kaempferol, quercetin, kaempferol 3-O-β-D-glucoside, kaempferol 3-O-β-D-galactoside and quercetin 3-O-β-D-glucoside were isolated and characterized by spectral data.
The changes in total phenolics, total anthocyanins, gallic acid (GA), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) contents during black raspberry (BR, Rubus coreanus) wine manufacturing were investigated. Total phenolic content gradually increased during BR wine manufacturing. The total anthocyanin content slightly increased, but the changes were not significant. The GA and DHBA in BR wine were detected as main compounds and their content greatly increased during manufacturing. The DPPH radical-scavenging activity was also increased during BR wine manufacturing. In particular, the antioxidant activity in the blood plasma of rats administered with BR wine concentrate was significantly higher than those administered with BR fruit extracts in inhibition of copper ion-induced cholesteryl ester hydroperoxide formation. These results indicate that an increase in antioxidant activity of BR wine may be due to low molecular phenolic compounds including GA and DHBA produced during the manufacturing.
Alkyl esters of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid are inhibitors of the sn-glycerol-3-phosphate oxidase system of Trypanosoma brucei brucei in vitro and have significant trypanocidal activity in vivo when combined with glycerol. While the parent acid has little inhibitory activity in vitro, the esters are highly active with activity increasing as the chain length of the esterifying alcohol increases. The n-dodecyl ester was more than 400 times as active as salicylhydroxamic acid and 15 times more active than the corresponding p-n-alkyloxybenzhydroxamic acid, one of the most active sn-glycerol-3-phosphate oxidase inhibitors previously reported. When combined with glycerol (to block an alternative pathway of glycolysis) and tested in vitro against intact parasites, this ester was 100 times more effective than salicylhydroxamic acid and 10 times more effective than p-n-dodecyloxybenzhydroxamic acid. It was also active against T. b. brucei in mice when combined with glycerol whereas the latter compound was not. Esters of 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid) were also highly active while those of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid were much less inhibitory and those of 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid were inactive. A related compound, 2',4',5'-trihydroxybutyrophenone, was also active as predicted by its structure but was too toxic to be of interest as a drug candidate.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) (PCA) is a widely-known naturally phenolic acid. PCA is similar in structure to gallic acid, caffeic acid and vanillic acid, which are typical antioxidant compounds, and is widespread in the plant kingdom [5] [6] [7] . PCA has been studied for its effects on human health such as antioxidant activity, anti-cancer, anti-fatigue, anti-arrhythmia, anti-inflammatory, antiviral activity, analgesics, active protection of the nerves and kidneys. There have been numerous reports of antimicrobial inhibition of PCA against Salmonella typhimurium DT104, Escherichia coli O157: H7, Listeria monocytogenes, Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus cereus, and Candida albican [8] [9] [10] [11] . However, the fungal pathogen resistance in plants is still an unknown possibility of PCA despite its characteristics and properties in medicine. Therefore, this research are aimed to investigate the resistance of PCA against plant pathogens, particularly the specific pathogenicity of rice blast disease.
Two new compounds named fischeacid and fischexanthone, together with eight known compounds, were obtained from the culture of a marine-derived fungus Neosartorya fischeri strain 1008F₁. The structures of the new compounds were elucidated based on the spectroscopic data. Bioassays indicated that AGI-B4 and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid showed potent inhibitory effect on the replication of tobacco mosaic virus, and AGI-B4 also possessed an inhibition of the cell proliferation of human gastric cancer cell line SGC-7901 and hepatic cancer cells BEL-7404.
AIM:To investigate the chemical constituents of Elaeocarpus glabripetalus Merr..METHODS:The compounds were isolated and purified by repeated column chromatography and their structures were identified by physicochemical and spectral methods,respectively.RESULTS:Eleven compounds were isolated from the stems and leaves of this plant,and identified as kaempferol(1),β-sitosterol(2),cucurbitacin D(3),methyl gallate(4),ethyl gallate(5),quercetin(6),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(7),mogroside I E1(8),5R,6R-epoxymogroside I E1(9),kaempferol-7-O-α-L-arabinopyranoside(10) and rutin(11).CONCLUSION:Compounds 2 and 3 were isolated from this plant for the first time and the other nine compounds were isolated from the genus of Elaeocarpus for the first time.Structure of compound 8 was firstly confirmed by X-ray analysis.Compound 9 can modestly increase adiponectin production(1.32 fold at 25μg·mL-1) in adipocytes.
Phenolic compounds, antioxidant activities and total phenolic contents of leaves from different olive varieties (Gemlik, Kalamata, Yağlık and Sarıulak) were evaluated after conventional drying at different temperatures (50, 60, 70 and 80 °C). The drying process resulted in non-significant effects on olive leaves. The phenolic contents however, varied with drying temperature. The contents of minor total phenolics in Gemlik, Kalamata and Sarıulak leaves were 1457.6, 1899.3 and 2179.8 mg GAE/100 g, respectively when dried at 60 °C. The highest total phenolic reduction (23.2%) was observed in Kalamata leaves after drying at 80 °C. The major phenolic compounds in olive leaves were gallic acid (101.2-439.7 mg/100 g), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (66.7-460.4 mg/100 g), (+)-catechin (39.2-667.8 mg/100 g), 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (15.8-584.8 mg/100 g) and quercetin (33.1-277.7 mg/100 g). It was observed that olive leaves from different varieties are rich in phenolic compounds which are sensitive to heat and varied with drying temperature.
In previous studies, the authors showed that the nitrone radical scavenger α-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) and its sulfo-derivative, 2-sulfo-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (S-PBN), attenuated cognitive disturbance and reduced tissue damage after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. In the current study, the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after TBI was monitored with microdialysis and the 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) trapping method. A single dose of PBN (30 mg/kg) or an equimolar dose of S-PBN (47 mg/kg) was administered intravenously 30 minutes before a controlled cortical contusion injury in rats. Plasma and brain tissue drug concentrations were analyzed at the end of the microdialysis experiment (3 hours after injury) and, in a separate experiment with S-PBN, at 30 and 60 minutes after injury. Traumatic brain injury caused a significant increase in ROS formation that lasted for 60 minutes after the injury as evidenced by increased 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) concentrations in t...
Phenylureas such as diuron are major herbicides used worldwide to control undesirable weeds. The environmental fate of phenylureas is of great interest because massive amounts of those herbicides are used. It is known that abiotic degradation of phenylureas in soil–water systems is catalyzed by humic acids. However, due to the chemical heterogeneity and large molecular sizes of humic acids, the specific effects of functional groups during catalysis have not been elucidated. Therefore, we studied here for the first time the kinetics of diuron degradation in the presence of low molecular weight humic acid-like compounds such as benzoic acid derivatives. Experiments were carried out at various pH and temperature, and monitored by high-performance liquid chromatography. Results show that all benzoic acid derivatives efficiently catalyzed diuron hydrolysis. The catalytic efficiency decreased in the following order: 0.88 M−1 day−1 for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 0.72 M−1 day−1 for 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 0.23 M−1 day−1 for phthalic acid, 0.11 M−1 day−1 for 2-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 0.09 M−1 day−1 for 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. These differences in the catalytic efficiency are explained by steric hindrance affecting the accessibility of reactive sites and hence influencing the rate of the overall process. Steric factors are therefore expected to control the catalytic activity of humic acids because of the chemical similarities between humic acids and low molecular weight humic acid-like compound. Our results should help predict more accurately the fate and abiotic degradation mechanism of phenylureas in the environment.
Abstract Inhibitors of purified, soluble prolyl hydroxylase ( K. Majamaa et al. (1984) Eur. J. Biochem. 138 , 239–245; K. Majamaa et al. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261 , 7819–7823 ) were tested against isolated chick embryo bone microsomes containing intracisternal prolyl hydroxylase and its radiolabeled, unhydroxylated procollagen substrate. Two groups of inhibitors were used which consisted of pyridine-2-carboxylate and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (catechol) derivatives. The 2,4- and 2,5-pyridine dicarboxylic acids, which are potent inhibitors of the soluble enzyme ( K i values 2 and 0.8 μ m , respectively), were effective in the same concentration range against intracisternal prolyl hydroxylase, although their relative affinities were reversed. Inhibition by pyridine-2,4-dicarboxylate in the microsomal system was reversed by increasing the concentration of 2-oxoglutarate. Pyridine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid did not inhibit the uptake of 2-[ 14 C]oxoglutarate into microsomes, so it appears likely that the inhibitor must traverse the microsomal membrane and act directly at the enzyme level. Pyridine-2-carboxylic acid was ineffective in the microsomal system at 1 m m whereas it is a relatively potent inhibitor of the soluble enzyme with a K i of 25 μ m . This finding suggests that the second carboxyl group of the pyridine carboxylate derivatives may be required for their transport into the microsomal lumen. In the soluble system, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene had been found to be competitive inhibitors with relatively low K i values of 5 and 25 μ m , respectively. In the microsomal system, half-maximal inhibition was obtained at approximately 50–100 μ m and inhibition was not reversed by increasing the concentrations of either 2-oxoglutarate or ascorbate, alone or together. These results imply that in situ these compounds do not inhibit prolyl hydroxylase directly. Thus, the microsomal system can assess the accessibility of the intracisternal enzyme to potential inhibitors and offers an insight into the in cellulo potential of such compounds.
1 These techniques are now employed to generate new polymorphs of 2,3-, 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, 3,4-, and 3,5-positional isomers of dihydroxybenzoic acids. These compounds are prone to give solvate/hydrate forms upon crystallization. Two polymorphs of 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, a new polymorph of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and guest free form of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were crystallized by melting and sublimation. A new hydrate polymorph of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was isolated. These polymorphs differ in the nature of hydrogen bond synthons in their crystal structure. Structural and thermal characterization of polymorphic phases having multiple Z' will be presented. 
Abstract Phenolic compounds, antioxidant activities and total phenolic contents of leaves from different olive varieties (Gemlik, Kalamata, Yaglık and Sarıulak) were evaluated after conventional drying at different temperatures (50, 60, 70 and 80°C). The drying process resulted in non-significant effects on olive leaves. The phenolic contents however, varied with drying temperature. The contents of minor total phenolics in Gemlik, Kalamata and Sarıulak leaves were 1457.6, 1899.3 and 2179.8 mg GAE/ 100 g, respectively when dried at 60°C. The highest total phenolic reduction (23.2%) was observed in Kalamata leaves after drying at 80°C. The major phenolic compounds in olive leaves were gallic acid (101.2-439.7 mg/ 100 g), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (66.7-460.4 mg/100 g), (?)-catechin (39.2-667.8 mg/100 g), 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (15.8-584.8 mg/100 g) and quercetin (33.1-277.7 mg/100 g). It was observed that olive leaves from different varieties are rich in phenolic compounds which are sensitive to heat and varied with drying temperature.
In previous studies, the authors showed that the nitrone radical scavenger ␣-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) and its sulfo-derivative, 2-sulfo-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (S-PBN), attenuated cognitive disturbance and reduced tissue damage after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. In the current study, the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) after TBI was monitored with microdialysis and the 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) trapping method. A single dose of PBN (30 mg/kg) or an equimolar dose of S-PBN (47 mg/kg) was administered intravenously 30 minutes before a controlled cortical contusion injury in rats. Plasma and brain tissue drug concentrations were analyzed at the end of the microdialysis experiment (3 hours after injury) and, in a separate experiment with S-PBN, at 30 and 60 minutes after injury. Traumatic brain injury caused a significant increase in ROS formation that lasted for 60 minutes after the injury as evidenced by increased 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) concentrations in the dialysate. PBN and S-PBN equally and significantly attenuated the posttraumatic increase in 3,4-DHBA formation. High PBN concentrations were found bilaterally in brain tissue up to 3 hours after injury. In contrast, S-PBN was rapidly cleared from the circulation and was not detectable in brain at 30 minutes after injury or at any later time point. The results suggest that scavenging of ROS after TBI may contribute to the neuroprotective properties observed with nitrone spin-trapping agents. S-PBN, which remained undetectable even in traumatized brain tissue, reduced ROS production to the same extent as PBN that readily crossed the blood-brain barrier. This finding supports an important role for ROS production at the blood-endothelial interface in TBI. Key Words: 4-hydroxybenzoic acid-Nitrone PBN radical-Rats-Reactive oxygen species-S-PBN-Traumatic brain injury.
Boric acid is found to inhibit hydrolysis of deprotonated 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid p-nitrophenyl ester, which occurs via the intramolecular mechanism of base catalysis, and virtually does not affect the hydrolysis of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid p-nitrophenyl ester. This phenomenon contradicts the borate-catalyzed hydrolysis of salicylic acid esters observed earlier and simulates borate inhibition of serine proteases.
Anacardium othonianum Rizz., popularly known as the Cerrado cashew tree, is widely used in medicine due to its therapeutic properties, including its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiarrheal activities. Light is an important regulator of the growth, development of plants differentiation, and metabolism. Considering the influence of light on the production of phytochemicals, the aim of the present study was to evaluate production of gallic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids and amentoflavone in A. othonianum seedlings grown in vitro exposure to white, blue, green, red, and yellow light. The seedlings were evaluated with respect to the length of the aerial parts and the number of leaves, at 0, 20, and 40 days of treatment. The fresh and dry weights of the aerial parts and the levels of phenolic acid and biflavonoid were evaluated at 40 days via high-performance liquid chromatography with a diode array detector (HPLC-DAD). Regardless of the light wavelength used for the growth, the largest length of the aerial parts (5.54 cm) and an increase in the number of leaves (2.86-fold) were observed at 40 days. The largest accumulations of fresh weight (325.5 mg and 335.1 mg per seedling) and dry weight (83.3 mg and 84.5 mg per seedling) were observed in seedlings grown under red and yellow light, respectively. Relatively higher levels of gallic acid (0.66 mg.g-1dry weight) and amentoflavone (1.41 mg.g-1dry weight) were found in seedlings grown under blue light. In contrast, the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels of the seedlings under red light increased (8.22 mg.g-1 dry weight).
CONTEXT ::: Traditional Chinese medicines have attracted increasing interest as potential sources of novel drugs with a wide range of biological and pharmacological activities. Annona glabra Linn (Annonaceae) is used in traditional medicine as an anticancer drug. Phytochemical investigation of this plant led to the isolation of acetogenins, ent-kauranes, peptides, and alkaloids. In addition, compounds exhibited anticancer, anti-HIV-reserve, and antimalaria. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: Isolation, structure determination, and cytotoxic activity evaluation of compounds from the methanol extract from A. glabra fruits. ::: ::: ::: MATERIALS AND METHODS ::: Using chromatographic methods to isolate compounds from the A. glabra methanol extract. The cytotoxic activity of compounds was evaluated by a 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. In addition, compounds which showed significant cytotoxic activity were chosen for further study apoptosis characteristics. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: One new, (2E,4E,1'R,3'S,5'R,6'S)-dihydrophaseic acid 1,3'-di-O-β-d-glucopyranoside, and eight known compounds, (2E,4E,1'R,3'S,5'R,6'S)-dihydrophaseic acid 3'-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (2), icariside D2 (3), icariside D2 6'-O-β-d-xylopyranoside (4), 3,4-dimethoxyphenyl O-β-d-glucopyranoside (5), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (6), blumenol A (7), cucumegastigmane I (8), and icariside B1 (9), were isolated from the fruits of A. glabra. Icariside D2 (3) was found to show significant cytotoxic activity on the HL-60 cell line with the IC50 value of 9.0 ± 1.0 µM and did not show cytotoxic activity on the Hel-299 normal cell line. The further test indicated that compound 3 induced apoptosis via alteration of expression of apoptosis-related proteins and decreased phosphorylation of AKT in HL-60 cells. ::: ::: ::: DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION ::: The results suggested that the constituents from A. glabra may contain effective compounds which can be used as anticancer agents.
Anacardium othonianum Rizz., popularly known as the Cerrado cashew tree, is widely used in medicine due to its therapeutic properties, including its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiarrheal activities. Light is an important regulator of the growth, development of plants differentiation, and metabolism. Considering the influence of light on the production of phytochemicals, the aim of the present study was to evaluate production of gallic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids and amentoflavone in A. othonianum seedlings grown in vitro exposure to white, blue, green, red, and yellow light. The seedlings were evaluated with respect to the length of the aerial parts and the number of leaves, at 0, 20, and 40 days of treatment. The fresh and dry weights of the aerial parts and the levels of phenolic acid and biflavonoid were evaluated at 40 days via high-performance liquid chromatography with a diode array detector (HPLC-DAD). Regardless of the light wavelength used for the growth, the largest length of the aerial parts (5.54 cm) and an increase in the number of leaves (2.86-fold) were observed at 40 days. The largest accumulations of fresh weight (325.5 mg and 335.1 mg per seedling) and dry weight (83.3 mg and 84.5 mg per seedling) were observed in seedlings grown under red and yellow light, respectively. Relatively higher levels of gallic acid (0.66 mg.g -1 dry weight) and amentoflavone (1.41 mg.g -1 dry weight) were found in seedlings grown under blue light. In contrast, the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid levels of the seedlings under red light increased (8.22 mg.g -1 dry weight).
The spectral quality of light influenced the biomass and phenolic acid and biflavonoid levels of A. othonianum Rizz. seedlings in vitro. Red and yellow light stimulated the accumulation of dry weight in A. othonianum Rizz. seedlings. The levels and yields of gallic acid and amentoflavone increased in the presence of blue light. In contrast, the red light promoted the production of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.
Glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) is a critical intracellular enzyme involved in detoxification of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) to water. In the present study we examined the susceptibility of mice with a disruption of the glutathione peroxidase gene to the neurotoxic effects of malonate, 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Glutathione peroxidase knock-out mice showed no evidence of neuropathological or behavioral abnormalities at 2-3 months of age. Intrastriatal injections of malonate resulted in a significant twofold increase in lesion volume in homozygote GSHPx knock-out mice as compared to both heterozygote GSHPx knock-out and wild-type control mice. Malonate-induced increases in conversion of salicylate to 2,3- and 2, 5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, an index of hydroxyl radical generation, were greater in homozygote GSHPx knock-out mice as compared with both heterozygote GSHPx knock-out and wild-type control mice. Administration of MPTP resulted in significantly greater depletions of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and homovanillic acid in GSHPx knock-out mice than those seen in wild-type control mice. Striatal 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) concentrations after MPTP were significantly increased in GSHPx knock-out mice as compared with wild-type control mice. Systemic 3-NP administration resulted in significantly greater striatal damage and increases in 3-NT in GSHPx knock-out mice as compared to wild-type control mice. The present results indicate that a knock-out of GSHPx may be adequately compensated under nonstressed conditions, but that after administration of mitochondrial toxins GSHPx plays an important role in detoxifying increases in oxygen radicals.
Tridentoquinone (1), the main pigment of Suillus tridentinus, is accompanied by the known meroterpenoid bolegrevilol (3) and a dimer, tridentorubin (5). The absolute configuration of 1 was unambiguously established by a single-crystal X-ray analysis of the corresponding (–)-camphanoate. The structure of 5 was elucidated by 2D NMR techniques including a 2D INADEQUATE experiment. Feeding experiments with [1-13C]-labeled 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (6*) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (7*) proved the incorporation of these precursors into all three metabolites. Tridentoquinone (1) was monolabeled at C-1 suggesting the formation of the ansa ring by oxidative cyclisation of 2-geranylgeranyl-6-hydroxybenzoquinone (10). This was supported by the isolation of the expected intermediate, deoxytridentoquinone (11), from the mushroom extract. Tridentorubin (5) may be formed by addition of precursor 10 to tridentoquinone (1). This hypothesis is backed up by the in vitro formation of an analogous product 13 from 1 and 1,4-benzoquinone. (© Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, 69451 Weinheim, Germany, 2008)
Use of a porous flow-through electrode at the upstream ground contact or at both the upstream ground contact and the high-voltage emitter contact in an electrospray ion source was shown to provide for new types of electrochemical experiments utilizing only the electrochemistry inherent to electrospray. The normal stainless steel bore-through union serving as the upstream grounding point in a floated electrospray emitter system was replaced with a high surface area porous flow-through electrode assembly to achieve effective electrochemical reduction of analytes at this point in positive ion mode, and effective electrochemical oxidation of analytes in negative ion mode. This was demonstrated by the oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and reserpine in negative ion mode and by the reduction of thionine in positive ion mode. In the case of reversible oxidation (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and reduction (thionine) processes, partial rereduction and reoxidation of the products due to reaction with products generated by cathodic and anodic processes at the emitter were observed, respectively. By implementing two high surface area porous flow-through electrodes in the system, one as the upstream grounding point and the other as the emitter electrode, a multiple-step reaction scheme was achieved that included consecutive electrochemical reduction and oxidation reactions and a following chemical reaction as demonstrated by the hydroquinone tagging of an initially disulfide-linked peptide.
Phenolic compounds, which are secondary metabolites of plants, are one of the main groups of compounds that provide antiallergic, antiinflammatory, antimicrobial, antioxidant, cardioprotective properties of medicinal and aromatic plants. These broad physiological effects that they possess lead researchers to examine the phenolic contents of plants. Tilia tomentosa Moench is one of 45 species belonging to Tiliaceae family, and the use of flowers in traditional treatment methods is quite common. Although it is well known that T. tomentosa flowers are rich in phenolics with various biological functions, there is no recent study on determination of phenolic compounds of T. tomentosa flowers using UPLC-ESI-MS/MS. In this study, firstly, T. tomentosa flowers were extracted using hexane and volatile oil fractions were separated from the plant. Distilled water:methanol (50:50) mixture was added to the remaining flower part at 40 °C and that subjected to extraction for 15 min. The obtained extract was filtered and dried in a lyophilizer at -70 °C. The residue was redissolved in a mixture of distilled water:methanol (80:20). The sample was analyzed by UPLC-MS/MS (Waters Acquity Ultra Performance LC, Xevo TQ-S MS/MS) by passing through Macherey-Nagel Chromafil Xtra PTFE-20/25 0.20 μm filters. According to the analysis results, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (66.820 mg/kg), myricetin (29.395 mg/kg), rutin (21.421 mg/kg), ferulic acid (12.334 mg/kg) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (10.383 mg/kg) were detected. T. tomentosa flowers have great potential to usage in industries such as food, medicine and cosmetic due to its rich content of phenolics.
Oxygenases, those enzymes catalyzing the incorporation of oxygen atoms derived exclusively from molecular oxygen into organic substrates, are ubiquitous in nature. The degradation and detoxification of hydrophobic materials such as aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons is initiated by monooxygenases to yield alcohols and phenols, respectively. In man and higher organisms, these initial metabolic products are conjugated with a hydrophilic moiety and excreted; in contrast, microbes are capable of metabolizing hydrocarbons completely to CO/sub 2/ and H/sub 2/O. In the case of aromatics, the initially formed phenols are further hydroxylated to catechols, which are substrates for dioxygenase-catalyzed ring clevages. The products of the dioxygenase reactions are easily converted to simple substrates such as acetate and succinate; thus, the microbial non-heme iron dioxygenases are critical for the degradation of natural and synthetic aromatic compounds in the environment. In recent years, both mono and dioxygenases have become the subject of intensive research, with molecular-level information becoming available for both mammalian and microbial enzymes. Among the monooxygenases, there is no doubt that the cytochrome P-450 containing enzymes have been the most intensively studied. In this presentation, we will discuss recent work with protocatechuate-3,4-dioxygenase (PCD), which catalyzes the intradiol clevage of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid) tomore » give ..beta..-carboxy-cis, cis-muconic acid.« less
Seven compounds were isolated from Neonauclea sessilifolia. They are paeonol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, scopoletin, anthraquinnones chrysophanol, 4H-1-benzopyran-4-one,5,7-dihydroxy-2-methyl, beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol glucoside. These compounds were isolated at first time from this genus and this plant.
Aromatic carboxylic acids strongly inhibited 4-methylcatechol oxidation by an o-diphenol oxidase extracted from sweet cherry fruits (Prunus avium). Esterification of the acids decreased their inhibitory strength. Inhibitors containing the benzene nucleus showed a greater effectiveness than the corresponding aliphatic and heterocyclic compounds (except 2-naphthalenecarboxylic acid). Similar inhibitory effects were observed by replacing the benzene ring with a highly unsaturated open chain. The inhibitory properties of benzoic acid, cinnamic acid, p-coumaric acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were investigated. It is proposed that the catalytic and inhibitory sites are close together in the enzyme molecule.
The stems and fruits of Vismia parviflora have been shown to contain sitosterol, betulinic acid, lupeol, friedelin, β-friedelinol, shikimic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, quercetin, 1,7-dihydroxyxanthone, 1,5-dihydroxy-8-methoxyxanthone, madagascine, chrysophanic acid, vismiaquinone-A and its isomer vismiaquinone-C. The structures of these compounds have been elucidated by using spectroscopic data as MS, UV, IR, one- and two-dimensional NMR.
Glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx) is a critical intracellular enzyme involved in detoxification of hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) to water. In the present study we examined the susceptibility of mice with a disruption of the glutathione peroxidase gene to the neurotoxic effects of malonate, 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Glutathione peroxidase knock-out mice showed no evidence of neuropathological or behavioral abnormalities at 2-3 months of age. Intrastriatal injections of malonate resulted in a significant twofold increase in lesion volume in homozygote GSHPx knock-out mice as compared to both heterozygote GSHPx knock-out and wild-type control mice. Malonate-induced increases in conversion of salicylate to 2,3-and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, an index of hydroxyl radical generation, were greater in homozygote GSHPx knock-out mice as compared with both heterozygote GSHPx knock-out and wild-type control mice. Administration of MPTP resulted in significantly greater depletions of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and homovanillic acid in GSHPx knock-out mice than those seen in wild-type control mice. Striatal 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) concentrations after MPTP were significantly increased in GSHPx knock-out mice as compared with wild-type control mice. Systemic 3-NP administration resulted in significantly greater striatal damage and increases in 3-NT in GSHPx knockout mice as compared to wild-type control mice. The present results indicate that a knock-out of GSHPx may be adequately compensated under nonstressed conditions, but that after administration of mitochondrial toxins GSHPx plays an important role in detoxifying increases in oxygen radicals.
Abstract: Phenolic compounds, which are secondary metabolites of plants, are one of the main groups of compounds that provide antiallergic, antiinflammatory, antimicrobial, antioxidant, cardioprotective properties of medicinal and aromatic plants. These broad physiological effects that they possess lead researchers to examine the phenolic contents of plants. Tilia tomentosa Moench is one of 45 species belonging to Tiliaceae family, and the use of flowers in traditional treatment methods is quite common. Although it is well known that T. tomentosa flowers are rich in phenolics with various biological functions, there is no recent study on determination of phenolic compounds of T. tomentosa flowers using UPLC-ESI-MS/MS. In this study, firstly, T. tomentosa flowers were extracted using hexane and volatile oil fractions were separated from the plant. Distilled water:methanol (50:50) mixture was added to the remaining flower part at 40 °C and that subjected to extraction for 15 min. The obtained extract was filtered and dried in a lyophilizer at -70 °C. The residue was redissolved in a mixture of distilled water:methanol (80:20). The sample was analyzed by UPLC-MS/MS (Waters Acquity Ultra Performance LC, Xevo TQ-S MS/MS) by passing through Macherey-Nagel Chromafil Xtra PTFE-20/25 0.20 μm filters. According to the analysis results, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (66.820 mg/kg), myricetin (29.395 mg/kg), rutin (21.421 mg/kg), ferulic acid (12.334 mg/kg) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (10.383 mg/kg) were detected. T. tomentosa flowers have great potential to usage in industries such as food, medicine and cosmetic due to its rich content of phenolics.
The stems and fruits of Vismia parviflora have been shown to contain sitosterol, betulinic acid, lupeol, friedelin, β-friedelinol, shikimic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, quercetin, 1,7-dihydroxyxanthone, 1,5-dihydroxy-8-methoxyxanthone, madagascine, chrysophanic acid, vismiaquinone-A and its isomer vismiaquinone-C. The structures of these compounds have been elucidated by using spectroscopic data as MS, UV, IR, one-and two-dimensional NMR.
Abstract Despite mass production and widespread use of parabens, triclosan (TCS), and triclocarban (TCC) in a range of personal care products, little is known about their concentrations and distribution in pregnant woman serum in China. In this study, 5 parabens (methyl- (MeP), ethyl- (EtP), butyl- (BuP), heptyl- (HeP) and benzyl-parabens (BzP)) and 4 their metabolites (methyl protocatechuate (OH-MeP), ethyl protocatechuate (OH-EtP), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB) and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB)), TCS, and TCC were measured, by using solid-phase extraction (SPE) and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) techniques, in pregnant woman serum samples collected from 13 provinces in China. Total concentrations of parabens (∑PBs), their metabolites (∑MBs), and TCC and TCS (∑AAs) in serum ranged from 0.221–18.6 (geometric mean (GM): 2.47), 47.4–598 (212), and 0.101–5.84 (1.01) ng/mL, respectively. MeP, EtP, 4-HB and TCS were the dominant compounds, and their GM concentrations were 1.86, 0.239, 211 and 1.00 ng/mL, respectively. Geographical distribution of target chemicals in serum was determined. Concentrations of MeP (5.49 ng/mL) and EtP (0.895 ng/mL) in sera from the Northeast China were higher than those from other regions (MeP: 0.987–3.54, EtP: 0.07–0.254 ng/mL; p
Abstract Washed cell suspensions of Aerobacter aerogenes NC 3 , an auxotroph growing with trypophan, indole or anthranilic acid, accumulate a number of phenolic compounds when incubated in phosphate buffer with glucose, ammonium and magnesium ions. 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catechol and 4-hydroxybenzoic acid have been identified after 6 h incubation. After longer incubation (20 h) 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic is not detected. An as yet unidentified compound with certain characteristics of a phenol and properties suggesting the presence of o -dihydroxy, amino and carboxylic acid grouping in the molecule has also been detected.
Phenolic compounds in kiwifruit pulp were separated and characterized by reversed-phase HPLC, and the effect of juice processing on the phenolic composition was studied. Fractionation of phenolic compounds was achieved through selective elution from C-18 cartridges prior to preconcentration and subsequent separation by HPLC. Strongly acidic compounds were identified as derivatives of coumaric and caffeic acids, including chlorogenic acid, protocatechuic acid, and a derivative of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The weakly acidic fraction contained epicatechin, catechin, and procyanidins (B3, B2, or B4 and oligomers). Flavonols were present as the glycosides of quercetin (glucoside, rhamnoside, and rutinoside) and kaempferol (rhamnoside and rutinoside). Phenolic compounds were present, at levels of <1-7 mg/L, in clarified juice. The concentration of phenolics was highest after high-temperature short-time treatment (HTST) of juice. Hydrolysis of hydroxycinnamic acids occurred after enzyme addition and HTST treatment. The flavonol glycoside composition is the best identifier of kiwifruit juice.
Abstract The activity of partially purified rat liver catechol- O -methyltransferase (COMT) was measured by an assay procedure in which 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was used as a substrate for the enzyme. Optimal enzyme activity was present at a concentration of MgCl 2 of 10 −3 M. The effects on COMT activity of a series of alkaline earth compounds were determined in the presence of optimal concentrations of MgCl 2 . CaCl 2 and Ca(NO 3 ) 2 at concentrations of 10 −3 M reduced COMT activity by 63 and 59 per cent respectively. BaCl 2 and Sr(NO 3 ) 2 (10 −3 M) did not decrease enzyme activity, nor did additional MgCl 2 to a final [Mg 2+ ] of 2 × 10 −3 M) did not decrease enzyme activity and 0·50 × 10 −3 M CaCl 2 in the presence of different concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, S -adenosyl-1-methionine and MgCl 2 was determined. In each case Lineweaver-Burk plots of these data were compatible with noncompetitive or “mixed” inhibition.
Objective:To establish the method for determination of protocatechuic acid,tyrosol,3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl alcohol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid,and evaluate the quality of preparation of Yanlixiao from different manufacturers.Methods:Determination of protocatechuic acid and tyrosol by RP-HPLC,the chromatogra-phic column was Dikma Technologies C18 analytical column(200 mm×4.6 mm,5 μm),the mobile phase was acetonitrile-0.1%phosphoric acid solution(6∶94),the flow rate was 1.0 mL·min-1,the detection wavelength by programmable switching:0-18 min,at 258 nm for determination of protocatechuic acid,18-30 min,278 nm for determination of tyrosol.Determination of 3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl alcohol and 3,4-dihydroxybenz-oic acid that were calculated with protocatechuic acid by UV-Vis spectrophotometry at 500 nm.Results:A good linear range of protocatechuic acid in 0.080-0.400 μg by HPLC(r=0.9995),the average recovery was 100.0%(RSD was 2.1%,n=5);A good linear range of tyrosol was 0.63-3.15 μg by HPLC(r=0.9995),the average recovery was 99.3%(RSD was 2.3%,n=5).Conclusion:Assess multi-index ingredients in preparation of Yanlixiao with comprehensive index method can be used for the total quality control.
In the present study , the role of the phenolic compounds and the pollen grains as differential diagnosis of Senna senna plants grow in the Valleys and on the Mountains of Mekkah was demonstrated. Since Senna is a member of the anthracene group of purgatives, its active principles being derivatives of anthraquinone , the present work aimad also at investigating its phenolic compounds that have medicinal significance. Flavonoids were classified according to their chemical structure to three groups: O-Flavonols included quercetin rutin quercetin-3-glucoside quercetin-3-rhamnoside and kaempferol. O-Flavones were represented by apigenin. It was accompanied by its C-Flavone, vitexin. Both hydrolysable and condensed tannins were detected. Three phenolic acids were detected; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Phloroglucinol ,(-)-epicatechin; the precursor of condensed tannins and (+)-catechin, the flavan desivative were also detected .The medicinal importance of the isolated phenolic compounds was given. . Generally the pollen grain of the studied taxa of the genus Senna growing in the vallyes and on the mountains of Makkah are radically symmetrical, isopolar, tricolporat and triangular trilobed with fossulate sculpture. ::: The chemotaxonomical and palynological studies of the studied taxa of the genus Senna are not inagreement except for the flowers. There fore further detals of the flavonoid constituents and their distribution especially of those which are less wid spread, are to be studied because as understanding of their chemical properties will be helpful in the interpretation of their chemotaxonomical properties of Senna senna plants
The chemical constituents and bioactivities of the stem barks and leaves of Bauhinia rufescens and the stem barks of Ficus platyphylla have been studied. Extraction of the plant materials using Soxhlet method with petroleum ether, ethyl acetate, and methanol afforded nine crude extracts. Fractionation and purification of the ethyl acetate and methanol extracts of stem bark of B. rufescens yielded two new compounds identified as 4-(2'-hydroxyphenethyl)-5-methoxy-2-methylphenol and bauhiniside. Compounds identified as 6-methoxy-7-methyl-8-hydroxydibenz [b,f]oxepin, a-amyrin acetate, s-sitosterol 3-O-s-D-xylopyranoside, menisdaurin, sequoyitol, 6-hydroxy-7,7a-dihydrobenzofuran-2(6H)-one, glyceryl trilinoleate, linoleic acid, stigmasterol and s-sitosterol were also isolated from the stem barks. The leaves extract yielded glyceryl trilinoleate, sequoyitol and bauhiniside. F. platyphylla yielded two new phenolic compounds from its methanolic extract which was identified as ficuside A and ficuside B. In addition, hordenine was isolated via alkaloid extraction, and also 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid anhydride, epicatechin, lupeol, lupeol acetate and a-amyrin acetate were identified from F. platyphylla. Bioactivities including antioxidant, antimicrobial, inhibitory studies on the brine shrimp larvae, tyrosinase, acetylcholinesterase and cyclooxygenase-2 were investigated. Among the nine crude extracts from the two plants, the methanol extract from the stem barks of B. rufescens showed a strong DPPH radical scavenging activity (14.31 µg/mL), and similar extract from F. platyphylla showed higher total phenolic content (719.58 µg GAE/mg), while the methanol extract from the leaves of B. rufescens showed the highest antioxidant value based on s-carotene bleaching assay (78.75%). The antimicrobial activity revealed the methanol extract from F. platyphylla was active against Gram-positive bacteria, Staphylococcus aureus (113 µg/mL) and a fungus, Aspergillus niger (56 µg/mL). Meanwhile, toxicity study indicated that, ethyl acetate from the leaves of B. rufescens was toxic against brine shrimp larvae (LC50 0.06 mg/mL). The methanol extract from F. platyphylla was found active against tyrosinase enzyme (49.2%). Evaluation of acetylcholinesterase inhibition using the microplate and bioautographic assays showed the methanol extract from F. platyphylla inhibited the enzyme activity with percent inhibition of 44.7% (LD 30.0 µg). In addition, among the isolated compounds, oxepin from the stem barks of B. rufescens was found to be active against Staphylococcus aureus (113 µg/mL) and lupeol acetate from F. platyphylla was found active against Candida glabrata (56 µg/mL). It was also found that, hordenine inhibited acetylcholinesterase activity at 58.6% (LD 33.0 µg). Lupeol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid anhydride from F. platyphylla showed the highest inhibitory activity against tyrosinase (67.7%) and COX-2 (IC50 0.15 µM) enzymes, respectively.
Degradation of aromatic hydrocarbons by the Rhodococcus wratislaviensis KT112-7 isolated from technogenic mineral waste products of the BKRU1 “Uralkalii” plant was investigated (Berezniki, Perm krai). The R. wratislaviensis KT112-7 was shown to utilize increased concentrations of o-phthalic (o-PA) (8 g/L) and benzoic (BA) (3.4 g/L) acids. The strain grows with o-PA, BA, and biphenyl at a NaCl content of up to 75, 90 and 100 g/L in the culture medium, respectively. Based on an analysis of the metabolic profile and nucleotide sequences of the bphA1, benA, and phtB genes, the strain KT112-7 was found to degrade o-PA via the formation of 3,4-dihydroxyphthalic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. Degradation of biphenyl proceeds via the formation of BA and then at low concentrations of NaCl (up to 50 g/L) via the formation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid with its subsequent oxidation, while at high concentrations of NaCl (over 60 g/L)-via the direct oxidation of benzoic acid to resultant catechol. These data indicate that the Rhodococcus wratislaviensis KT112-7 is a promising strain in the development of new biotechnologies directed for utilization (transformation) of aromatic compounds, including the conditions of increased mineralization.
The low levels of circulating anthocyanins are thought to be due in part to extensive metabolism of the parent compounds by gut microflora to form various phenolic acid metabolites and a universal aldehyde metabolite, known as phloroglucinol aldehyde (PGA; 2,4,6-trihydroxy-benzaldehyde) [14] [15] [16] [17] . This phenomenon has been described by several studies, and it has been reported that incubation of anthocyanin aglycons with gut microflora results in complete degradation of the parent species to form phenolic acids and aldehydes [17] . Furthermore, circulating concentrations of phenolic acid metabolites derived from anthocyanin degradation such as protocatechuic acid (PCA; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) have been observed at up to eight times to that of the parent anthocyanins [18] . It has also been reported that PCA remains in relevant tissues longer than its parent anthocyanin compounds [19] . Similarly, gallic acid, another phenolic acid metabolite of some anthocyanin compounds, has also been observed to accumulate in brain tissue at high levels with chronic consumption [20] . Collectively, these observations have led investigators to suggest that phenolic acids and other anthocyanin metabolites are the bioactive components of anthocyanin-rich diets [21] . Studies assessing the neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of these compounds are few in number, however, and have focused predominately on only two phenolic acids, PCA and gallic acid. Thus, the distinct neuroprotective effects of other phenolic acids and aldehydes derived from anthocyanins have not been examined.
A new assay of catechol O-methyltransferase (EC 2.1.1.6) is described by determination of the m- and p-O-methylated products of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The method involves DEAE-Sephadex A-25 chromatography and reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography on a LiChrosorb 5 RP 18 column. The liquid chromatographic solvent system consisted of 0.05 m acetic acid in methanol:water (1:4, vv), pH 3,2. meta/para ratios of O-methylation are easily obtained by this method. Dimethylation has not been observed with a partially purified enzyme preparation from rat liver.
Seven phenolic metabolites were isolated from the solid culture of Ampelomyces SC0307, obtained from Dinghu Mountain. On the basis of their spectral data analysis, they were identified as 2,5-dihydroxybenzyl alcohol (1), p-hydroxybenzoic acid (2), 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (4), phenylacetic acid (5), 3,4-dimethoxycinnamic acid (6), and 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (7). All compounds were isolated from this fungus for the first time.
Studies on the complexation of copper(II) by phenolic acids, as ligand models of humic substances were done by potentiometry. The acids under study were: 3,4-dihydroxyhydrocinnamic acid or hydrocaffeic acid (1), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (2) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or protocatechuic acid (3). Acidity constants of the ligands and the formation constants of metal-ligand complexes were evaluated by computer programs. The carboxylic group of the phenolic acids has different pK(a1) values, being the dissociation constants intrinsically related with the distance between the function and the aromatic nucleus. The results obtained allow concluding that acidity constants of the catechol moiety of the compounds are similar with pK(a2) and pK(a3) values between 9.47-9.41 and 11.55-11.70. The complexation properties of the three ligands towards copper(II) ion are quite similar, being the species found not different either in nature or stability. Although the model ligands have some structural differences no significant differences were found in their complexation properties towards copper(II). So, it can be postulated that complexation process is intrinsically related with the presence of a catechol group.
Metabolism studies with selected test substances have shown that a model on the basis of the incubated hen's egg is suitable as a supplement to animal experimentation. Because of its 3,4-dimethoxyphenyl structure veratric acid (3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid), a known human metabolite of mebeverine, was chosen as model substance for the present investigations and the parent compound as well as 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid were identified as main metabolites. The absence of 3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid lets conclude that the O-demethylation takes place exclusively at the p-methoxyl function. In addition, 3,3',4,4'-tetramethoxy-l-ornithuric acid (2,5-bis-(3,4-dimethoxybenzoylamino)pentanoic acid) and its O-desmethyl derivative could be characterized as further metabolites. So far an amino acid conjugate has not been described after veratric acid administration in a vertebrate. There were no indications for the appearance of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the veratric acid metabolism. This was confirmed by corresponding studies having the isomeric guaiacol acids as precursor. Furthermore, it could be proved that in ovo the O-methylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid occurs regioselective at the m-hydroxyl group. The results which broaden the knowledge on the metabolic fate of veratric acid are discussed in comparison with those in mammals. The metabolites were identified by GC-MS, ESI-HRMS and LC/ESI-MS/MS. The structure of the synthesized reference substance was confirmed by MS, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectral data.
Iron-limited cells of the green alga Chlorella kesslerii use a reductive mechanism to acquire Fe(III) from the extracellular environment, in which a plasma membrane ferric reductase reduces Fe(III)-chelates to Fe(II), which is subsequently taken up by the cell. Previous work has demonstrated that synthetic chelators both support ferric reductase activity (when supplied as Fe(III)-chelates) and inhibit ferric reductase. In the present set of experiments we extend these observations to naturally-occurring chelators and their analogues (desferrioxamine B mesylate, schizokinen, two forms of dihydroxybenzoic acid) and also two formulations of the commonly-used herbicide N-(phoshonomethyl)glycine (glyphosate). The ferric forms of the larger siderophores (desferrioxamine B mesylate, schizokinen) and Fe(III)-N-(phoshonomethyl)glycine (as the isopropylamine salt) all supported rapid rates of ferric reductase activity, while the iron-free forms inhibited reductase activity. The smaller siderophores/siderophore precursors, 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, did not support high rates of reductase in the ferric form but did inhibit reductase activity in the iron-free form. Bioassays indicated that Fe(III)-chelates that supported high rates of ferric reductase activity also supported a large stimulation in the growth of iron-limited cells, and that an excess of iron-free chelator decreased the growth rate. With respect to N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine, there were differences between the pure compound (free acid form) and the most common commercial formulation (which also contains isopropylamine) in terms of supporting and inhibiting ferric reductase activity and growth. Overall, these results suggest that photosynthetic organisms that use a reductive strategy for iron acquisition both require, and are potentially simultaneously inhibited by, ferric chelators. Furthermore, these results also may provide an explanation for the frequently contradictory results of N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine application to crops: we suggest that low concentrations of this molecule likely solubilize Fe(III), making it available for plant growth, but that higher (but sub-lethal) concentrations decrease iron acquisition by inhibiting ferric reductase activity.
Erlotinib hydrochloride in total yield of 10.2% was synthesized by a seven-step reaction including etherification,amidation,dehydration,nitration,reduction,convergent cyclization and salt formation using 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the starting material.The structure was confirmed by1 H NMR,IR and MS.
1. A comparative study of compounds which inhibit the respiration of the infective form of the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei brucei, such as salicylhydroxamic acid, other substituted benzhydroxamic acid, esters of 2,3- and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and structurally related compounds, showed that they have a remarkable degree of selectivity for the trypanosome as compared to rat liver mitochondria even though they are putative CoQ analogues and both respiratory systems are dependent on CoQ. 2. The minimal inhibition of mammalian mitochondrial function could not be assigned to inhibition of ubiquinone function in these mitochondria. 3. CoQ-reducing mitochondrial dehydrogenases from rat liver, trypanosomes and skunk cabbage (Symplocarpus foetidus) were insensitive to these inhibitors. 4. The alternative oxidase of skunk cabbage mitochondria was sensitive to a spectrum of trypanosome respiration inhibitors suggesting a similarity to the oxidase of the trypanosome although differing degrees of sensitivity and differing responses to alterations in the molecular structure of the inhibitors indicate that the milieu of the active sites are dissimilar.
Abstract: Aqueous infusions of the leaves of the shrub Albertisia delagoensis (Menispermaceae) are used in South Africa in traditional Zulu medicine to alleviate a variety of symptoms, including fever, and intestinal problems. We report the analysis of such an aqueous extract using the HPLC-NMR technique. A number of polar compounds were identified, including proto-quercitol, nicotinic acid, allantoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, phthalic acid and the aporphine alkaloid derivative roemrefidine. Allantoic acid and roemrefidine have been fully characterised by 1 H-and 13 C-NMR and mass spectrometry. Earlier reports of antiplasmodial activity of roemrefidine and of A. delagoensis extracts are correlated with this study and with the antipyretic properties of neutral aqueous extracts.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, commonly known as protocatechuic acid, is a naturally occurring phenolic compound, being the active component of many medicinal and edible plants. The in vitro and in vivo studies of protocatechuic acid conclude that it possesses many pharmacological properties. Protocatechuic acid, present in waste streams of food processing industries, is considered a phenolic pollutant. Owing to its bactericidal properties and in order to maintain the standards of disposal, its removal from the waste streams is necessary. Protocatechuic acid finds applications also in bioplastics, polymers, and also bio-based active films to improve food preservation. Its direct extraction from plant secondary metabolites possesses many difficulties. Recently reports of protocatechuic acid production by several Bacillus species are present in literature. For the retrieval/removal of protocatechuic acid from aqueous streams, methods like adsorption, O3/UV or H2O2/UV, and microbial degradation are in practice. For the retrieval of carboxylic acid from fermentation broths and aqueous streams, reactive extraction by the use of specific extractants has been found to be a most suitable method owing to its several advantages. The present paper is focused on the separation of protocatechuic acid by reactive extraction as a promising approach. The parameters needed for the design such as distribution coefficient, water co-extraction, physical and chemical extraction, effect of initial acid concentration, diluents, extractant, and extractant concentration have been discussed.
Previous studies have shown that Argan fruits contain a large variety of polyphenolic compounds. Recently, another class of polyphenolic compounds, namely amino phenols have been detected and identified in immature Argan fruits. The objective of this study, was to establish whether or not, these novel compounds are also present in mature Argan fruits. To this end, a comparison was made between mature fruits from two regions of Morocco. Nineteen major compounds were identified and quantitated, including amino phenols, flavonoids, and phenolic acids by chromatographic methods in mature Argan fruits from the two regions of Morocco (Essaouira and Agadir). The phenolic acids were identified as gallic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; the amino phenols as Arganimide A, and argaminolics A-C, and the flavonoids as rutin pentoside, quercetin-3-O-arabinoside, quercetin glycogallate, quercetin-3-O-rhamnogalactoside, rutin, quercetin-3-O-galactoside (hyperoside), quercetin-3-O-glucoside (quercitrin), quercetin-3-O-arabinoside, quercetin glycohydroxybenzoate, quercetin glycosinapate, quercetin glycoferulate, quercetin glycocoumarate and quercetin. n=145.
The electrochemical oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2) and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3) were studied in the presence of triphenylphosphine (4) as a nucleophile using cyclic voltammetry and controlled-potential coulometry. The results indicate that the quinones derived from oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid participate in Michael addition reaction with triphenylphosphine (4). In this work, based on an EC mechanism, the observed homogeneous rate constants (k obs) of the reaction of produced benzoquinones with triphenylphosphine (4) were estimated by comparing the experimental cyclic voltammograms with the digitally simulated results.
An extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves (EGb) was given to healthy volunteers. Urine samples were collected for 3 days, and blood samples were withdrawn every 30 min for 5 h. The samples were purified through SPE C18 cartridges and analyzed by reversed-phase LC–diode array detection for the presence of EGb metabolites. Only urine samples contained detectable amounts of substituted benzoic acids, i.e., 4-hydroxybenzoic acid conjugate, 4-hydroxyhippuric acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyhippuric acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, hippuric acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (vanillic acid). In contrast to rats no phenylacetic acid or phenylpropionic acid derivatives were found in urine, thus indicating that in humans a more extensive metabolism takes place. As for rats the metabolites found in human urines accounted for less than 30% of the flavonoids given. The same procedure was applied to blood samples, and no metabolites could be detected.
FIELD: chemistry. SUBSTANCE: invention relates to thermally stable composition of antifreeze cooler, which includes water and glycol in weight ratio equal from approximately 95:5 to approximately 5:95, respectively, and including from approximately 0.01 wt % to approximately 5.0 wt %, at least, one additive, selected from group consisting of 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid, isocitric acid, acetylsalicylic acid and alkaline salts of said acids. Claimed invention also relates to method of glycol stability improvement, as well as to method of obtaining improved antifreeze composition of cooler, which include application of composition described above. EFFECT: increasing stability of antifreeze glycol-based compositions at high temperature. 16 cl, 4 tbl, 5 ex
Such a system, i. e. with two organic substrates, was considered for example in [6] . In the course of their investigations of the oxalic acid/acetone mixed substrate BZ system, Wittmann et al. observed a pause of oscillations and an induction period depending on the initial composition. The length of the first oscillating period decreased with an increasing initial acetone concentration until the pause turned into an induction period. Both kinds of quiescent periods were excitable by bromide ions. The effect of [Br − ] on the behaviour of a system showing some sequential oscillations was also shown [8] . The ferroin-catalyzed BZ-type reaction with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid as organic substrate showed two types of temporal oscillations depending on the initial concentration of bromide. When [Br − ] was very high, damped highfrequency oscillations appeared. When [Br − ] was very low, low-frequency oscillations of the normal type were obtained. At moderate concentrations of bromide both high-frequency and low-frequency oscillations could be monitored. Effects of temperature on high-frequency and low-frequency oscillations were similar. The oscillation frequencies increased with increasing temperature. More discussion regarding the chemistry of some sequential oscillations in the system MA, NaBrO 3 , H 2 SO 4 , CeNH 4 (NO 3 ) 4 is given in [7] . At several initial concentrations of the substances [7] , some oscillations were observed at the very beginning of the reaction followed by no oscillations and again some oscillations. The first group of oscillations was radical-controlled and the second group was bromide-controlled. Radical-controlled oscillations were seen with or without an induction period. In the first case higher [H 2 SO 4 ] was used and also acetylacetone. Bromide-controlled, radicalcontrolled or a combination of both bromide-and radical-controlled oscillations could be obtained by varying the MA or the sulfuric acid concentration. Those sequential oscillations are also easily obtained by use of a chemical reaction simulation model where some of the reactions include radicals such as MA· and BrO 2 ·.
Various biochemical pathways are activated under hyperglycemic conditions. Among these, the polyol pathway is the most widely studied and the most promising in order to explain the mechanisms of diabetic complications 3 . When there are excessive glucose levels, they are metabolized via the polyol pathway. This pathway involves two main enzymatic steps: the first and key enzyme aldose reductase (AR), which reduces glucose to sorbitol by using NADPH as cofactor, and the second enzyme, sorbitol dehydrogenase (SDH), converts sorbitol to fructose with NAD þ as a cofactor 4 ( Figure 1 ). In cases of diabetic complications such as retinopathy, neuropathy and nephropathy, the speed of the polyol pathway significantly increases. As a result of this, accumulation of sorbitol and its metabolites occurs in several cells including nerves, retina and kidneys due to the poor penetration across membranes and inefficient metabolism of sorbitol. Thus, both oxidative stress and osmotic stress increase in the cells depending on the development of diabetic complications. High activity of AR causes an increase in the consumption of NADPH and this causes the decrease of the activities of glutathione reductase and nitric oxide synthase. Therefore, high activity of AR causes a reduction of the intracellular GSH and NO levels. As a result, aldose reductase enzyme activity reduces the cellular antioxidant capacity [5] [6] [7] . Meanwhile, the oxidation of sorbitol to fructose by SDH leads to oxidative stress. This is because its co-factor NAD þ is converted to NADH in the process, and NADH is the substrate for NADH oxidase to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS) 8 . Fructose, which is generated from the polyol pathway, is metabolized fructose-3-phosphate (F3P) and 3-deoxyglucosone (3DG). F3P and 3DG are more potent nonenzymatic glycation agents 9, 10 . Thus, the flux of glucose through the polyol pathway would increase the advanced glycation end products (AGE) formation. It is known that AGE leads to several noxious diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, atherosclerosis, diabetes, heart failure and cancer associated with oxidative stress 11 ( Figure 2 ). As a result, studies on the determination of the aldose reductase inhibitors are gaining importance every day. Inhibitors of AR have been used in therapeutic applications in diabetic complications 7 . Some well-known AR inhibitors are epalrestat, tolrestat, zenarestat, sorbinil, zopolrestat, ponalrestat, lidorestat, fidarestat, ranirestat, quercetin, resveratrol and ADN-158 3 . The use of these inhibitors has remained limited due to the undesirable side effects 12, 13 . Therefore, the identification of new aldose reductase inhibitors and the inhibition of aldose reductase by natural chemicals are very important. In particular, studies using phenolic compounds as aldose reductase inhibitors are very popular [14] [15] [16] [17] . In recent years, there have been many studies on the isolation of phenolic compounds from traditional plants and their effects on glucose metabolism, particularly the polyol pathway [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] . In the present study, we aimed to purify aldose reductase enzyme from rat kidney and to investigate the in vitro inhibitory effects of a series phenolic acids (Figure 3 ). These phenolic acids are used as antioxidant food additives, prodrugs or drugs. Tannic acid, a plant polyphenol, is also used as a food additive. Its safe dosage ranges from 10 to 400 mg, depending on the type of food to which it is added 24 . In addition, tannic acid has been shown to have antimutagenic, anticarcinogenic and antioxidant activities by G€ ulçin et al. 25 Chlorogenic acid is a natural phenolic compound that is the ester of cinnamic acids, such as caffeic acid, ferulic and p-coumaric acids. Also, it is used as food additive. For example, green or raw coffee is a major source of chlorogenic acid in nature 26 . Recently, it has been determined that chlorogenic acid has many health benefits such as reduction of the relative risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes type 2, Alzheimer's disease, and antibacterial and anti-inflammatory activities [27] [28] [29] . Sinapic acid (3,5-Dimethoxy-4-hydroxycinnamic acid) is one of the important bioactive compounds. It is found in the plant kingdom in various fruits, vegetables, cereal grains, oilseed crops, some spices and medicinal plants 30 . Sinapic acid shows antimicrobial 31 , anti-inflammatory 32 , anticancer 33 and anti-anxiety activities 34 . Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) is a type of natural phenolic acid. Protocatechuic acid is present in most edible plants used in folk medicine. It is a compound widely found in the human diet. In particular, it presents in bran and grain brown rice (Oryza sativa L.) and onion (Allium cepa L.). It has been reported that protocatechuic acid has antioxidant, antibacterial, anticancer, antiulcer, antidiabetic, antiaging, antifibrotic, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antiatherosclerotic, cardiac, hepatoprotective, neurological and nephro protective activities 35 . 4-Hydroxybenzoic acid is commonly used as an additive and preservative in food processing, pharmaceuticals, beverages and cosmetic products 36 . pCoumaric acid (trans-4-Hydroxycinnamic acid) exists widely in fruits, such as apples and pears, and in vegetables and plant products, such as beans, potatoes, tomatoes and tea. p-Coumaric has antioxidant properties. It has been reported that it reduces the risk of stomach cancer by reducing the formation of carcinogenic nitrosamines 37 . Ferulic acid (4-Hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid) is The relationship between oxidative stress and diabetic complications of the polyol pathway: Accelerated flux polyol pathway plays a critical role in the development of diabetic complications. Cataract is one of the diabetic complications. It is known that sorbitol accumulates in tissues and causes an increase in the osmotic pressure. Thus, water enters into the cells and swelling takes place, which can cause a cataract. Also, AR competes with glutathione reductase (GR) for their co-factor NADPH. The activity of GR is decreased when the activity of AR increased and this leading to a decrease in GSH level. Increased NADH causes NADH oxidase (NOx) to produce ROS. Fructose-3-phosphate (F-3-P) and 3-deoxyglucosone (3-DG), metabolites of fructose, increase AGE and binding of advanced glycation end product (AGE) to receptor of AGE (RAGE) increase oxidative stress widely distributed in the plant kingdom and might be found in high concentrations in foods such as navy bean, corn bran, wheat bran, eggplant, artichokes and beets. Ferulic acid has hepatic, neuro and photoprotective effects, and antimicrobial and antiinflammatory activities. It is useful in the treatments of cancer, diabetes and lung and cardiovascular diseases 38 . Vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid) is used as a food additive and is one of the main natural phenols in argan oil. Also, it is found in wine and vinegar. Vanillic acid has been associated with a variety of pharmacologic activities such as inhibiting snake venom activity, carcinogenesis, apoptosis and inflammation 39 . Syringic acid shows strong antioxidant, antiproliferative anti-endotoxic, anti-cancer activity and hepatoprotective activity 40, 41 . a-Resorcylic acid (3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) is found in peanuts (Arachis hypogaea), chickpeas (Cicer arietinum), red sandalwood (Pterocarpus santalinus) and hill raspberry (Rubus niveus). Studies show that a-resorcylic acid has nematicidal, antioxidant, adipocytes lipolysis inhibitory and polyphenoloxidase (PPO) inhibitory activity 42 . 3-hydroxybenzoic acid is found in common plants such as grapefruit (Citrus paradisi), olive oil (Olea europaea) and medlar fruit (Mespilus germanica). It has glucosylating activity 43 . Gallic acid is an endogenous plant polyphenol. It is found abundantly in tea, grapes, berries and other fruits as well as in wine. Gallic acid is a powerful antioxidant and it has anti-inflammatory, antimutagenic and anticancer properties 44 .
Sorghum bran is concentrated with procyanidins (predominately polymers), which may be beneficial for health in humans; however, the bioavailability of procyanidins is not well-understood. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were fed an AIN93G diet containing 0, 5, 10, 20, or 40% Hi-tannin sorghum bran (n ) 5-7 for each group) for 50 days. Sorghum bran contained 23.3 mg/g of procyanidins. The urinary excretions of catechin, epicatechin, methylated catechins, and phenolic acids were analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Sorghum bran dose dependently increased the urinary excretion of catechin (0-2.2 nmol/day) and 3′-O-methylcatechin (0-9.5 nmol/day). Their serum concentrations also increased with dose (range of 0-14 nM for 3′-O-methylcatechin). Among the 14 phenolic acids analyzed, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid, and 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid dominated in the serum (1.8-8 Imol/L). In the urine, 3-methoxy-4hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid dominated and their excretion increased significantly with the level of sorghum bran in the diet. The summed phenolic acid excretion was 0.8 Imol/day in the control group and increased to 23 Imol/day for 40% sorghum bran group. The hippuric acid excretion ranged from 2.2 to 16.2 Imol/day and peaked in the 10% sorghum bran group. On the basis of chromic oxide, a nonabsorbable marker, total procyanidins and polymers disappeared progressively, and significant degradation occurred in the cecum and colon. Catechins and procyanidins in sorghum were bioavailable; however, bacteriaderived phenolic acids were the predominant metabolites of procyanidins. Procyanidins degraded in the gastrointestinal tract. Depolymerization was not observed.
The study was focused on the development of a solid-phase extraction protocol for seven phenylcarboxylic acids from albumin solutions by using unmodified hyper-cross-linked polystyrene restricted access materials with crosslinking degrees varying from 100 to 400% (four of the acids are known to be markers of sepsis). The breakthrough volume of the most hydrophilic 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid rises as the sorbent bridging extent grows. Inversely, the breakthrough volume of the most hydrophobic 3-phenylpropionic acid was found to decrease considerably when the degree of crosslinking exceeds 200%. This unusual pattern is because of the superposition of two opposite tendencies. Increasing substitution extent of phenyls facilitates their π-π-interactions with polar compounds whereas rising density of the network reduces the accessibility of sorption sites to all solutes. Mini-cartridges containing 30 mg of an optimal sorbent take up the acids completely and reversibly, the recoveries being close to 100% even in the presence of high concentrations of albumin. By coupling the developed solid-phase extraction with high-performance liquid chromatography and diode array detection technique, we managed to determine quantitatively phenylcarboxylic acids in the serum of a healthy patient blood, and the recoveries varied from 93 to 100% while the limit of quantification was (4-9) × 10-7 M.
In order to understand the mechanism of action of the phenolic compound 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, we tested its effect on tobacco root membrane potential. Tobacco root segments, excised from micropropagated plants grown in liquid media, were perfused with 0.1–5 mM 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Activity on the plasma membrane potential was compared with that obtained after perfusion with 0.05 mM indole-3-acetic acid, 0.05 mM kinetin and 0.05 mM gibberellic acid. Possible interactions between 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and plant growth regulators were evaluated by the means of successive applications. When applied to tobacco root segments, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid elicited a transient membrane depolarization. The membrane depolarization induced by 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was followed by a repolarization phase, as for auxin applications. In roots preconditioned with the other growth regulators, the activity of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid on membrane potential was non-specifically affected. In roots preconditioned with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, indole-3-acetic acid activity on cell membrane was altered, suggesting a specific reciprocal interaction.
The mechanism of Adriamycin (ADR) induced cytotoxicity is not completely understood. While a variety of mechanisms have been proposed, the production of free radicals by redox cycling of the semiquinone has been implicated in cytotoxicity, specifically for cardiotoxicity. To determine whether a scavenger of free radicals would modify the cytotoxicity of ADR, the benzoic acid derivative 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHB) was investigated for its ability to protect against ADR-induced cytotoxicity and DNA double strand breaks in Chinese hamster V79 cells. V79 cells were treated with ADR, or its non-redox cycling analog iminodaunomycin, in the presence or absence of DHB. DHB provided significant protection (dose-modifying factor greater than 2.5 for ADR, and nearly 2 for iminodaunomycin) and also caused a dose-dependent decrease in DNA double strand breaks as measured by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. Assays of topoisomerase II activity showed that DHB inhibited topoisomerase II in a concentration-dependent manner, but did not inhibit topoisomerase I. Another non-toxic topoisomerase II inhibitor, the radioprotector WR-1065, also protected against ADR-induced cytotoxicity. These data identify DHB as a non-toxic inhibitor of DNA topoisomerase II and suggest that much of the cytotoxicity of ADR in actively growing V79 cells is due to mechanisms other than redox cycling by the semiquinone.
Fifteen steroidal and phenolic compounds were previously isolated and identified from the EtOAc fraction of flowers of Apocynum lancifolium (Apocynaceae) collected in Xinjiang-Uyghur Autonomous Region, PRC [1]. In continuation of research on the chemical composition of flowers of A. lancifolium, we chromatographed the n-BuOH fraction over a column of AB-8 macroporous resin. Compounds were eluted sequentially by H2O and EtOH (30 and 80%). The two fractions obtained using EtOH (30 and 80%) were rechromatographed over a column of ODS-A 120c (octadecylsilyl silica gel) using MeOH–H2O mixtures (20, 40, 60, and 80% and MeOH) to produce five fractions. The eluates of all fractions were separated by chromatography over a column of Sephadex LH-20 using MeOH–H2O (1:1) and MeOH to isolate six known pure compounds, the chemical structures of which were elucidated using PMR, 13C NMR, and 2D spectra in addition a comparison with the literature. Umbelliferone (1). Colorless crystals, C9H6O3, mp 230°C. Compound 1 was identified as umbelliferone using spectral data [2]. Protocatechoic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) (2), C7H6O4, mp 200–202°C. Spectral data agreed with those published [3]. 1-(3,4-Dihydroxycinnamoyl)-cyclopentane-2 ,3 -diol (3). Light-yellow crystals, C14H16O6, [ ]D 20 –54.0° (c 0.1, DMSO), mp 128–130°C. 1H NMR spectrum (600 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm, J/Hz): 7.45 (1I, d, J = 15.8, H-7), 7.08 (1H, d, J = 1.7, H-2), 6.97 (1I, dd, J = 8.2, 1.7, H-6), 6.77 (1I, d, J = 8.2, H-5), 6.23 (1H, d, J = 15.8, H-8), 5.19 (1H, m, H-1 ), 3.94 (1H, br.s, H-3 ), 3.50 (1H, dd, J = 9.7, 2.3, H-2 ), 1.99 (1H, d, J = 12.2, H-4 ), 1.85 (2H, m, H-5 ), 1.70 (1H, m, H-4 ). 13C NMR spectrum (150 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm): 166.34 (N-9), 148.60 (N-4), 145.79 (N-3), 144.71 (N-7), 125.46 (N-1), 121.21 (N-6), 115.87 (N-5), 114.77 (N-2), 114.52 (N-8), 73.13 (N-2 ), 71.43 (N-1 ), 71.30 (N-3 ), 39.37 (N-5 ), 37.94 (N-4 ) [4]. L-Bornesitol (4). White crystals, C7H14O6, mp 210–212°C, [ ]D 20 –19.0° (c 0.1, DMSO). 1H NMR spectrum (600 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm, J/Hz): 4.58 (1I, d, J = 4.2, 5-II), 4.55 (1I, d, J = 4.5, 6-II), 4.51 (1I, d, J = 4.3, 4-II), 4.46 (1I, d, J = 3.6, 2-II), 4.40 (1I, d, J = 5.6, 3-II), 3.92 (1I, dd, J = 3.6, 2.6, I-2), 3.43 (1I, td, J = 9.4, 4.5, I-6), 3.34 (1I, td, J = 9.4, 4.3, I-4), 3.29 (3I, s, OCH3), 3.10 (1I, ddd, J = 9.7, 5.6, 2.6, I-3), 2.91 (1I, td, J = 9.3, 4.2, I-5), 2.82 (1I, dd, J = 9.7, 2.6, I-1). 13C NMR spectrum (150 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm): 81.71 (N-1), 68.31 (N-2), 71.73 (N-3), 72.49 (N-4), 75.32 (N-5), 71.81 (N-6), 56.65 (OCH3) [5]. 2D NOESY: H-1/H-3; 3-OH/6-OH, 5-OH, 4-OH; 4-OH/6-OH, 5-OH, 3-OH; 5-OH/6-OH, 4-OH, 3-OH; 6-OH/5-OH, 4-OH, 3-OH. Trifolin (kaempferol-3-O-D-galactoside) (5). Yellow powder, C21H20O11, mp 256–257°C. Acid hydrolysis of 5 produced kaempferol and -D-galactose. 1H NMR spectrum (600 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm, J/Hz): 8.07 (1H, d, J = 8.9, H-2 , 6 ), 6.86 (2H, d, J = 8.9, H-3 , 5 ), 6.42 (1H, d, J = 2.0, H-8), 6.19 (1H, d, J = 2.0, H-6), 5.40 (1H, d, J = 7.7, H-1 ), 3.66 (1H, br.s, H-4 ), 3.54 (1H, t, J = 8.6, H-2 ), 3.46 (1H, dd, J = 10.4, 6.0, H-6 ), 3.37 (1H, dd, J = 9.5, 3.0, H-3 ), 3.34 (1H, t, J = 6.0, H-5 ), 3.30 (1H, dd, J = 10.4, 6.0, H-6 ). 13C NMR spectrum (150 MHz, DMSO-d6, , ppm): 177.44 (C-4), 164.60 (C-7), 161.17 (C-5), 159.94 (C-4 ), 156.40 (C-9), 156.24 (C-2), 133.19 (C-3), 130.94 (C-2 ), 120.86 (C-1 ), 115.03 (C-3 ), 103.76 (C-10), 101.69 (C-1 ), 98.79 (C-6), 93.70 (C-8), 75.76 (C-5 ), 73.08 (C-3 ), 71.19 (C-2 ), 67.86 (C-4 ), 60.17 (C-6 ) [6].
PURPOSE: Provided are a Rubus coreanum fruit juice composition which has antioxidative function and contains, as natural antioxidants, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid and a preparation method thereof. CONSTITUTION: A Rubus coreanum fruit juice composition having antioxidative function is characterized by containing, as natural antioxidative matters, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid which have radical scavenging activity and antioxidative function.
In this study,the chemical constituents of Hypericum sampsonii were isolated and purified using silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography.Six compounds were isolated from the chloroform extract of H.sampsonii.By using various spectroscopic techniques including UV,IR,high resolution MS,1D and 2D-NMR,these compounds were identified and elucidated as 2,6-Dihydroxy-4,3′,5′-Trihymethoxybenzophenone(1),1,3,6-Trihydroxy-2-methylanthraquinone(2),kaempferol(3),luteolin(4),3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester(5) and β-sitosterol(6).To the best of the author's knowledge,compound 1 is a novel compound,compound 2 and 5 are isolated from the plant for the first time.
Degradation of 3-CBA can be processed through a number of different degradation pathways. Formation of the 3-chlorocatechol or 4-chlorocatechol is catalyzed by the chlorobenzoate-1,2-dioxygenase [5] . Protocatechuate (3, 4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) or 5-chloroprotocatechuate (5-chloro-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) can be formed by the 3-chlorobenzoate-3,4-dioxygenase [6] . Another possibility of the 3-CBA degradation is the formation of gentisate (2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid) with 3-hydroxybenzoic acid as an intermediate [7] . The Scientific World Journal In the case of dichlorinated CBAs, degradation proceeds mostly by a 1,2-dioxygenase attack [8] . Another option for degradation of dichlorinated CBAs includes the complete removal of chlorine atoms via a two-step process prior to aromatic ring cleavage like in 2,4-CBA degradation or a 3,4-dioxygenase attack like in 3,4-CBA degradation. The two steps of chlorine removal in 2,4-CBA degradation are reductive dechlorination leading to the formation of 4-CBA and hydrolytic dechlorination. The degradation of 3,4-CBA is initiated by a 3,4-dioxygenase attack resulting in the formation of 5-chloroprotocatechuate [4] .
In this study, the 'autotoxic circle' of R. glutinosa was evaluated by seedling tests and verified by plantlet tests. We then quantified five central focal phenolic acids (4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, syringic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and vanillin) in allelopathic research and provided a more precise identification and confirmation of potential autotoxins to understand R. glutinosa autotoxicity. Twenty new compounds emerged in the 'autotoxic circle', four of which were chosen based on the availability of the chemicals, the specific dimensionality distribution in the soil and previous reports to track their autotoxicity. Finally, the bacterial and fungal community distributions in the root-zone were investigated by PCR-DGGE.
Phytochemical investigation of the stems, flowers, and leaves of Tabebuia palmeri has led to the isolation of a novel compound, 6-(1-hydroxyundec-3-enyl)-tetrahydropyran-2-one, and 16 known compounds, viz. 1-hexadecanol, 1-triacontanol, stigmast-5-en-3-ol, 2-hydroxy-3-(3-methylbut-2-enyl)-1,4-naphthoquinone (lapachol), methyl 3,4-dimethoxybenzoate, 2-acetyl-4H,9H-naphtho[2,3-b]furan-4,9-dione, 3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxy-12-ursen-28-oic acid, 5,7,4-trihydroxyflavone, -sitosteryl--D-galactoside, 6-O-(p-hydroxybenzoyl)-epiaucubin, 4-O--D-glucosylbenzoic acid, 9Z,12Z-octadecadienoic acid, and hexadecanoic acid. Except lapachol, all these phytoconstituents were isolated from the Tabebuia palmeri for the first time, and their structures were established on the basis of spectral data analysis and chemical reactions.
Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) is increasingly used in the study of metal-ligand equilibria in aqueous solutions. However, the correlation between conditions in solution and mass spectra in the gas phase is far from being completely established. In the present work the equation i = kC(0)f was used to correlate relative ion intensity (i) in an ESI mass spectrum, the stoichiometric concentration (C(0)) in solution of the complex which produced this ion, and the fraction (f) of complex having the same protonation state as that of the ion detected in the spectrum. This equation takes into account that metal-ligand complexes have acid-base properties, and that these properties affect the efficiency by which the ions are brought from the solution to the gas phase. The equation was experimentally checked by electrospraying solutions containing aluminium(III) and any of the four ligands 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxy-2-(1H)pyridinone, citric acid, and ethylenediaminetetramethylenephosphonic acid at different pH values. ESI-MS experimental i values and C(0)f values calculated from literature data were plotted versus the solution pH. Values are correlated in the majority of cases, thus confirming the validity of the approach proposed. Correlation is lost, as expected, for low f or C(0) values, and when extensive gas-phase reactions occur. The equation i = kC(0)f can be used to estimate quantitative data for unknown metal-ligand solutions analyzed by ESI-MS.
Various water-soluble homopolymers and copolymers of acrylamide (AAm) and acrylic acid (AA) which contained phenolic sites, such as guaiacol, lignin sulfonate (LS) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), were tested with regard to their degradability by white-rot fungi. Compared with Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Pleurotus ostreatus caused a significantly higher decrease in the average molecular weight (M̄w) of most of the copolymers and the homopolymer under the applied culture conditions. However, the M̄w of poly(guaiacol/AAm) increased significantly during incubation with Pl ostreatus. P. chrysosporium was able to reduce only the M̄w of the poly(LS/AA) to a significant degree and not that of the other polymers. The mineralization rate of AAm and AA copolymers and terpolymers of AAm, AA and phenolics (LS, 3,4-DHBA, guiacol), which were tested with P. ostreatus and Trametes versicolor, turned out to be low (0.8–3.2%). While the rates of mineralization were similar among all polymers, the decrease in radioactivity from the culture media was higher with the terpolymers bearing phenolic sites. UV spectra of the culture media revealed that the phenolic sites in the terpolymers were significantly degraded by both fungi. Obviously, the degradation of phenolics within the polymer chain caused a higher decrease in M̄w but did not significantly increase the mineralization rate.
Kiwi and pepino fruits are most valuable fruits as they contains substantial amounts of nutrients and bioactive compounds. These fruits exhibited several health potentials such as antioxidant, antiinflammatory, antiobesity, antihyperlipidemia, and anticancer properties. However, studies on the effect of microwave and conventional drying methods on the antioxidant activity and bioactive compounds of kiwi and pepino fruits are limited. Therefore, this study was conducted to assess the effect of microwave and oven drying methods on antioxidant activity, total phenolic, and phenolic compounds of kiwi and pepino fruits. Drying of the fruit samples was carried out using conventional (70 °C for 20 h) and microwave (720 W for 3 min) ovens. 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl scavenging and colorimetric Folin–Ciocalteu assays were used to assess the antioxidant activity and total phenolic contents, respectively, of fresh and dried fruits. Both drying methods significantly (p < 0.05) decreased the moisture contents of both fruits compared to untreated controls. Concomitantly, drying methods also enhanced (p < 0.05) antioxidant activity and total phenolic content of both fruits with the highest improvement being observed for microwave-dried fruits compared to untreated controls. In addition, a significant increase was observed in catechin and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene content of kiwi and pepino after drying process. However, microwave drying method reduced the amount of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid in kiwi (ranging from 34.120 to 9.350 mg/100 g) and pepino (varied from 33.414 to 15.445 mg/100 g). Generally, the highest antioxidant activity and phenolic contents were reported in microwave oven dried samples, followed by samples dried in oven and fresh fruits. The results revealed that microwave drying could be more useful in fruit drying than conventional drying. In addition, dried kiwi and pepino fruits contains substantial quantities of phenolic compounds with high antioxidant activity compared to fresh fruits, and thus they are considered as healthy food.
Brown pigment(s) formed in Cryptococcus neoformans when grown on media containing extracts of the seeds of Guizotia abyssinica cannot be extracted by common organic solvents or by 6 n HCl or 2 n NaOH. A similar pigmentation was observed in C. neoformans when grown on a medium containing caffeic acid isolated from the hydrolyzed methanol extract of G. abyssinica seeds. Its methyl ester and the diacetate thereof, as well as the following structurally related compounds, 3-hydroxytyramine, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanolamine, and 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxycinnamic acid, brought about similar pigmentation. However, 2,4-, 2,5-, 2,6-, and 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acids, tyrosine, phenylalanine, cinnamic acid, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid did not cause coloration in C. neoformans.
In this study, an effective way is presented to synthesize a mussel-inspired adhesive from two inexpensive commercially available materials: polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid via the esterification reaction and deprotection technology. This bioinspired adhesive exhibits good bonding ability on metal, glass, plastic, and wood, and the maximum bonding strength can be up to 4.0 MPa at dry conditions on glass substrate. Meanwhile, this adhesive can also be used as a wet/underwater adhesive. Such a PVA-based bioinspired adhesive may be used as a potential candidate for applications in industrial field.
The compounds were isolated by silica gel and HPLC from parts of aerial and roots of Ixeris Sonchifolia.two compounds were isolated from the part of the aerial.two compounds were isolated from the part of the roots.All the compounds identified based on 1H NMR and13C NMR respectively:4,8-(3′-methoxy,4′-hydroxy)-diphenyl-2,6-dihydroxy-ditetrahydrofuran xylogen(1),(+)-syringaresinol(2)coffeic acid(3),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid.All compounds are obtained from this plant for the first time.
Abstract Mo(VI) complexes of the ligands 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA), protocatechuate (PCA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (3,4-DHPA) or DOPAC were formed in aqueous solutions using (NH 4 ) 2 MoO 4 as starting material. Oligomeric complexes were isolated from the solutions as solids, and they were studied via Infrared (IR) and Raman spectroscopies as well as thermogravimetric analysis, in the solid state and in solution via Electrospray Mass Spectra (ESMS) and UV–Vis, Electron Spin Resonance (ESR) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopies methods. The ligands were coordinated as catechol and/or semiquinone with the metal. All complexes were found to contain the cis -(MoO 2 ) group, being stable in the presence of air in the solid state. The proposed complex structures are in agreement with all experimental data.
Abstract Esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid, commonly known as parabens are preservatives used in a variety of personal care products, cosmetics, pharmaceutical and food products. This paper presents the results of studies on photochemical degradation of hazardous water contaminants – methyl- (MP), ethyl- (EP), propyl- (PP), butyl- (BuP), benzylparaben (BeP) and p-hydroxybenzoic acid (p-HBA) (individually or in mixture) using ultraviolet C lamps in the presence and absence of hydrogen peroxide. Both systems were very efficient on the degradation of the single parent compounds. Total removal of individual pollutant was achieved after 2 h or 6 min for UVC and UVC/H 2 O 2 , respectively. The kinetic constants of hydroxyl radicals reaction and the photolysis quantum yields were obtained for each pollutant. The decomposition of the mixture of the six compounds with the H 2 O 2 /UVC system ensures a complete degradation after 30 min with a degree of mineralization of 25%. Whereas only 10% of mineralization was observed after the same time for photolysis. The pseudo-first-order fluence-based rate constants (for UVC and H 2 O 2 /UVC) for each paraben in the mixture reaction were calculated for the first time. The analysis using UHPLC/MS/MS technique shows that hydroxylation is the main pathway of the reaction with hydroxyl radicals. In fact, p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were identified as a major transformation products. Moreover the mono, di and tri derivatives of parabens were detected as the main intermediates formed during oxidation. The fluence-based experimental data and cost analysis showed that the H 2 O 2 /UVC treatment was effective in mineralizing of the parabens mixture.
The reductive dissolution of goethite ({alpha}-FeOOH) and hematite ({alpha}-Fe{sub 2}O{sub 3}) by phenolic reductants has been examined in order to improve the understanding of iron transformations in soils, sediments and aquifers. Rates of goethite reductive dissolution by hydroquinone increased as the pH was increased from pH 1.8 to 4.65, and the following reaction stoichiometry was obeyed: 2{alpha}-FeOOH + QH{sub 2} = 2Fe{sup 2+} + Q + 4OH{sup {minus}}. As the pH was increased from pH 4.5 to 6.0, the reductive dissolution rate decreased to below the detection limit. At pH 3.4, the reductive dissolution of hematite was two orders of magnitude slower than goethite. The relationship between structure and reactivity was examined for a series of mono-, di-, and tri-hydroxybenzene reductants. Rates of reductive dissolution decreased in the following order: catechol {approx equal} hydroquinone > 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid > resorcinol-phenol-4-hydroxybenzoic acid.
Abstract In this study, mulberry cultivars were found to have abundant bioactive compounds such as phenolics (100.97–586.23 mg gallic acid equivalents/100 g fresh weight), flavonoids (16.38–368.16 mg rutin equivalents/100 g fresh weight) and procyanidins (4.20–121.56 mg catechin equivalents/100 g fresh weight) after in vitro digestion. HPLC-TOF-MS analysis revealed that digested mulberry cultivars contained multiple phenolic compounds including cyanidin-3-O-glucoside and cyanidin-3-O-rutinoside. After gut microbiota fermentation, the contents of anthocyanins were increased initially, then decreased with time, and some anthocyanin metabolites (such as 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde, etc.) were detected. Our further cellular study indicated that mulberry (Hanguo) possessed reactive oxygen species scavenging capacity after gut microbiota fermentation. Our results indicated that the new cultivar Hanguo contained abundant polyphenols and exhibited potent antioxidant property after in vitro digestion and gut microbiota fermentation compared with other mulberry cultivars, which could be recommended as a dietary source of functional foods.
Electrochemical oxidation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) and 4-tert-butylcatechol (5) in the presence of 4-hydroxy-6-methyl-2-pyrone (2) as nucleophile in aqueous solution has been studied using cyclic voltammetry and controlled-potential coulometry. The results indicate that 1 via Michael reaction under electro-decarboxylation reaction converts to heterocyclic compound 4, and the quinone derived from 4-tert-butylcatechol (5) participates in Michael reaction with 2 and through an ECE mechanism converts to the corresponding o-quinone (6a). The electrochemical synthesis of 4 and 6a has been successfully performed in an undivided cell.
Nineteen compounds including one new flavanone were isolated from the juice of aged common sage exudate with sugar (ACSE). The isolated compounds were identified by NMR and MS analyses as levodopa methyl ester (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), (S)-8-hydroxy-4-hydroxy-phenylpropanoic acid (3), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (4), cis-caffeic acid (5), trans-caffeic acid (6), esculetin (7), (S)-8-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroxy-phenylpropanoic acid ethyl ester (8), cis-rosmarinic acid (9), trans-rosmarinic acid (10), trans-rosmarinic acid methyl ester (11), 6-methoxy-7,8,3',5'-tetrahydroxyflavanone (12), nepetin (13), trans-caffeic acid ethyl ester (14), luteolin (15), cis-caffeic acid ethyl ester (16), 6-methoxynaringenin (17), 1α-acetoxy-2-oxo-eudesman-3,7(11)-dien-8β,12-olide (18), and hispidulin (19). Compound 12 was isolated for the first time from nature and seven compounds (1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 14, and 18) were newly identified from common sage. Of them, 15 isolated phenolic compounds (1-3, 5-8, 10-15, 17, and 19) were detected in ACSE juice, while only 10 was detected in the fresh common sage.
Solvent-dependency of the antiradical reaction of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, PA) and its esters has been investigated. In aprotic solvents, methyl protocatechuate (PAMe) was readily oxidized by two molar equivalents of DPPH radical and converted to protocatechuquinone methyl ester (PQMe). On the other hand, in alcoholic solvents such as methanol, PAMe rapidly consumed five radicals in 30 min and changed to complex oxidized mixtures. A 1H-NMR analysis of the reaction mixture of PAMe and DPPH radical in methanol showed that PAMe was rapidly converted to PQMe and its 3-hemiacetal. In addition, a signal of 2-methoxy-PQMe 3-hemiacetal was also detected in the reaction mixture. The results suggested that PQMe undergoes a nucleophilic attack by the solvent alcohol molecule at the C-2 of the ring in methanol, leading to a regeneration of catechol structure, which accounts well for the higher DPPH radical scavenging activity of PAMe in alcohols than in aprotic solvents.
A capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) method was developed for separation and identification of photodegradation products of benzoic acid under irradiation at a wavelength of 300 nm. Parameters such as run buffer, applied voltage and injection time were optimized for the separation of benzoic acid and its photodegradation products. Linearity, limit of detection, and repeatability of migration time as well as peak area of the method were examined. Four reaction products, including salicylic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid have been separated and identified by spiking the known compounds into the irradiated samples using the CZE method developed. The confirmation of the reaction products is one of the key steps for proposing the possible reaction mechanisms involved in the photodegradation of benzoic acid.
Seventeen compounds were isolated from the capitula of Coreopsis tinctoria Nutt. with various column chromatographic methods and semi-preparative HPLC. Their structures were identified by the spectroscopic data and comparison with literatures as 2'-hydroxy-4,4'-dimethoxy-chalcone; (1), isoliquiritigenin (2), eriodictyol (3), naringenin (4), maritimetin (5), butin (6), taxifolin (7), luteolin (8), 7,3',4'-trihydroxyflavone (9), 8,3',4'-trihydroxyflavone-7-O-β-d-glucoside (10), quercetin (11), quercetagitin-7-O-β-d-glucoside (12), quercetin-7-O-β-d-glucoside (13), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (14), caffeic acid (15), coreoside B (16), and myo-inositol (17). Compounds 1, 4, 9, 10 and 17 were isolated from C. tinctoria Nutt. for the first time. Compounds 7 and 12 possessed the highest antioxidant activity (IC50 = 64.37 and 32.86 µg/ml, respectively) among the tested compounds (IC50 value of positive control was 5.34 µg/ml). Compound 7 exhibited potent PTP1B enzymatic inhibition with an IC50 value of 7.73 μg/ml (IC50 value of positive control is 1.46 µg/ml). Furthermore, compound 5 showed strong antibacterial activity against the Gram-positive bacterium, S. aureus.
Abstract The degradation of p-hydroxybenzoic acid (HBA) in aqueous solutions by ionizing radiation was studied. The phenolic pollutant was easily removed by the electron beam irradiation, as more than 80% of the initial 100 µM introduced was degraded for a dose of 600 Gy. It was shown that the addition of persulfate, producing the sulfate radical as additional reactive species, induced a change in the reaction pathway. LC–MS analyses were performed in order to identify the different by-products formed. In the absence of persulfate, the main by-product formed was 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, while in presence of persulfate, 1,4-benzoquinone was detected and the hydroxylated by-products were not present. A reaction pathway of HBA degradation by hydroxyl and sulfate radicals was proposed from the identification of the chemical structure of the different by-products detected. The influences of pH and dissolved oxygen were also studied. A high decline of HBA degradation was observed at pH 11 compared to pH 4.5, this decrease was minimized in the presence of persulfate. The dissolved oxygen concentration was found to be a limiting parameter of HBA degradation, however an excess of dissolved oxygen in solution did not improve the degradation to a large extent.
Abstract Eight complexes with the formula [M(NN)(DHBA)] (where MPd(II) or Pt(II), NN is 2,2′-bipyridine (BPY), 2,2′-biquinoline (BIQ), 1,10-phenanthroline (PHEN), 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline (DPP) and DHBA is 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid dianion) were found to photosensitize the oxidation of 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinol (NH) in N , N -dimethylformamide (DMF) to the nitroxide radical. This photo-oxidation reaction involves singlet molecular oxygen ( 1 O 2 ) as an intermediate and its presence was confirmed by quenching studies using bis(diethyldithiocarbamato)nickel(II), as well known 1 O 2 quencher. The ability of these complexes to photosensitize the above photo-oxidation reaction follows the order, [Pt(PHEN)(DHBA)]·H 2 O > [Pt(DPP)(DHBA)]·H 2 O > [Pt(BIQ)(DHBA)] > [Pd(PHEN)(DHBA)] > [Pt(BPY)(DHBA)] > [Pd(DPP)(DHBA)] > [Pd(BPY)(DHBA)]·CH 3 OH > [Pd(BIQ)(DHBA)]. This order depends on the metal ion, the nature of the α-diimine ligand and the geometry of the metal complex.
m-Hydroxybenzoic acid 4-hydroxylase was isolated and partially purified from Aspergillus niger grown in presence of m-hydroxybenzoic acid. The enzyme catalyzed the stoichiometric formation of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) from m-hydroxybenzoic acid with the consumption of NADPH and molecular oxygen. The reaction proceeded best at pH 7.2 and showed a requirement for FAD.
Abstract Background Little is known about the associations of bisphenol A, chlorophenols, benzophenones, and parabens with reproductive hormone levels in women. Our goal was to evaluate the associations between repeated measures of these chemicals and their mixtures with reproductive hormones in women. Methods Longitudinal urine samples from healthy, premenopausal women ( n = 143 with 3–5 urine samples each) were measured for bisphenol A, five chlorophenols (2,4-dichlorophenol (2,4-DCP), 2,5-dichlorophenol, 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,6-trichlorophenol, triclosan), two ultraviolet (UV) filters (benzophenone-1, benzophenone-3), and eight parabens and their metabolites (benzyl, butyl, ethyl, heptyl, methyl, propyl, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB)) over two menstrual cycles. Estradiol, progesterone, luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) were measured in blood up to 8 times each menstrual cycle. Linear mixed models were used for both single and multi-chemical exposures estimated using principal component analysis. Four factors were identified including: paraben; paraben metabolites and BPA, phenols, and UV filters. Models were adjusted for creatinine, age, race, and body mass index and weighted with inverse probability of exposure weights to account for time varying confounding. Results In single-chemical models, 3,4-DHB was associated with estradiol (0.06 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.001, 0.12)), 2-4-DCP with increased progesterone 0.14 (0.06, 0.21) and decreased FSH −0.08 (−0.11, −0.04), and 4-HB was associated with increased FSH 0.07 (0.01, 0.13). In multi-chemical models, all factors were associated with increased progesterone (beta coefficient range: 0.15 for UV filter factor to 0.32 for paraben factor). The paraben factor and the paraben metabolite and BPA factor were associated with increased estradiol [0.21 (0.15, 0.28); 0.12 (0.07, 0.18)]. The phenol and UV filter factors were associated with decreased estradiol, FSH, and LH. The UV filter factor showed the strongest inverse association with estradiol −0.16 (−0.22, −0.10), FSH −0.12 (−0.17, −0.07), and LH −0.17 (−0.23, −0.10). Conclusion Mixtures of phenols were associated with changes in reproductive hormones. Such changes could contribute to adverse health in women but additional research is necessary.
Thirteen phenolic compounds, 1,4-dimethoxybenzene (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (2), (2E)-3-(4- hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)acrylaldehyde (3), 3,7-dihydroxy-4H-chromen-4-one (4), 2,3-dihydroxy-1-(3,4- dihydroxyphenyl)propan-1-one (5), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid (6), 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid (7), methyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (8), 4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzaldehyde (9), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (10), 3-hydroxy-1-(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)propan-1-one (11), 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde (12) and benzene- 1,2,4-triol (13) were isolated from the heartwood of Caesalpinia sappan. Their anti-inflammatory activity was evaluated against LPS-induced NO production in macrophage RAW264.7 cells. Among them, compounds 3 and 8 showed strong inhibitory activities toward the LPS-induced NO production in macrophage RAW264.7 cells with IC50 values of 14.5 and 21.5 μM, respectively.
Abstract Nineteen compounds including one new flavanone were isolated from the juice of aged common sage exudate with sugar (ACSE). The isolated compounds were identified by NMR and MS analyses as levodopa methyl ester (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), (S)-8-hydroxy-4-hydroxy-phenylpropanoic acid (3), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid ethyl ester (4), cis-caffeic acid (5), trans-caffeic acid (6), esculetin (7), (S)-8-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroxy-phenylpropanoic acid ethyl ester (8), cis-rosmarinic acid (9), trans-rosmarinic acid (10), trans-rosmarinic acid methyl ester (11), 6-methoxy-7,8,3
On the basis of qualitative reactions and UV and IR spectroscopy, and also the detection in the products of alkaline hydrolysis of pbloroglucinol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, the aglycone of substance (1) was identified as quercetin.
The sonochemical degradation of ethyl paraben (EP), a representative of the parabens family, was investigated. Experiments were conducted at constant ultrasound frequency of 20 kHz and liquid bulk temperature of 30 °C in the following range of experimental conditions: EP concentration 250-1250 μg/L, ultrasound (US) density 20-60 W/L, reaction time up to 120 min, initial pH 3-8 and sodium persulfate 0-100mg/L, either in ultrapure water or secondary treated wastewater. A factorial design methodology was adopted to elucidate the statistically important effects and their interactions and a full empirical model comprising seventeen terms was originally developed. Omitting several terms of lower significance, a reduced model that can reliably simulate the process was finally proposed; this includes EP concentration, reaction time, power density and initial pH, as well as the interactions (EP concentration)×(US density), (EP concentration)×(pHo) and (EP concentration)×(time). Experiments at an increased EP concentration of 3.5mg/L were also performed to identify degradation by-products. LC-TOF-MS analysis revealed that EP sonochemical degradation occurs through dealkylation of the ethyl chain to form methyl paraben, while successive hydroxylation of the aromatic ring yields 4-hydroxybenzoic, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids. By-products are less toxic to bacterium V. fischeri than the parent compound.
Objective:To study the chemical constituent from the antithrombus activity extract of Radix Aerio Fici Microcarpae.Methods: The isolation and purification of the extract were conducted by means of silica gel column chromatography,polyamide column chromatography and recrytallization.The structures of these compounds were elucidated based on the physicochemical properties and spectroscopic analysis.Results: 7 compounds were isolated from the extract.They were identified as isovanillic acid(1),4-hydroxybenzoic acid(2),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3),friedelane(4),α-amyrin acetate(5),lanosterol(6) and β-sitosterol(7).Conclusion: Compound 3,4 and 7 are isolated from this plant for the first time.
Summary Coenzyme Q (Q), an essential component of eukaryotic cells, is synthesized by several enzymes from the precursor 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. Mutations in six of the Q biosynthesis genes cause diseases that can sometimes be ameliorated by oral Q supplementation. We establish here that Coq6, a predicted flavin-dependent monooxygenase, is involved exclusively in the C5-hydroxylation reaction. In an unusual way, the ferredoxin Yah1 and the ferredoxin reductase Arh1 may be the in vivo source of electrons for Coq6. We also show that hydroxylated analogs of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, such as vanillic acid or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, restore Q biosynthesis and respiration in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae coq6 mutant. Our results demonstrate that appropriate analogs of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid can bypass a deficient Q biosynthetic enzyme and might be considered for the treatment of some primary Q deficiencies.
Abstract: Coenzyme Q (Q), an essential component of eukaryotic cells, is synthesized by several enzymes from the precursor 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. Mutations in six of the Q biosynthesis genes cause diseases that can sometimes be ameliorated by oral Q supplementation. We establish here that Coq6, a predicted flavin-dependent monooxygenase, is involved exclusively in the C5-hydroxylation reaction. In an unusual way, the ferredoxin Yah1 and the ferredoxin reductase Arh1 may be the in vivo source of electrons for Coq6. We also show that hydroxylated analogues of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, such as vanillic acid or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, restore Q biosynthesis and respiration in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae coq6 mutant. Our results demonstrate that appropriate analogues of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid can bypass a deficient Q biosynthetic enzyme and might be considered for the treatment of some primary Q deficiencies.
Coenzyme Q (Q), an essential component of eukaryotic cells, is synthesized by several enzymes from the precursor 4-hydroxybenzoic acid. Mutations in six of the Q biosynthesis genes cause diseases that can sometimes be ameliorated by oral Q supplementation. We establish here that Coq6, a predicted flavin-dependent monooxygenase, is involved exclusively in the C5-hydroxylation reaction. In an unusual way, the ferredoxin Yah1 and the ferredoxin reductase Arh1 may be the in vivo source of electrons for Coq6. We also show that hydroxylated analogues of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, such as vanillic acid or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, restore Q biosynthesis and respiration in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae coq6 mutant. Our results demonstrate that appropriate analogues of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid can bypass a deficient Q biosynthetic enzyme and might be considered for the treatment of some primary Q deficiencies.
In addition, we demonstrate that hydroxylated forms of 4-HB like vanillic acid or 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid are able to restore Q 6 biosynthesis and respiration in a S.
Mutations in the enzyme copper/zinc superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). The means by which the mutations cause FALS appears to be due to an adverse property of the mutant SOD1 protein that may involve increased generation of free radicals. We used in vivo microdialysis to measure the conversion of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) as a measure of "hydroxyl radical-like" production in transgenic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mice with the G93A mutation as well as littermate controls. The conversion of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-DHBA was significantly increased in the striatum of transgenic ALS mice at baseline but not in mice overexpressing wild-type human SOD1. Following administration of 3-nitropropionic acid 3,4-DHBA generation was significantly increased as compared with baseline, and the increase in the transgenic ALS mice was significantly greater than those in controls, whereas the increase in mice overexpressing wild-type human SOD1 was significantly attenuated. The present results provide in vivo evidence that expression of mutations in SOD1 can lead to increased generation of "hydroxyl radical-like" activity, which further implicates oxidative damage in the pathogenesis of ALS.
Controversal findings are reported with respect to alternations in activity of monoamine oxidase (MAO) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) in psychoses. Initially we determined the interindividual differences of some biochemical properties of the two enzymes in normal control subjects. Platelet rich plasma and lysate of red blood cells, respectively, were used for assay. Enzyme activity was referred to mg of protein or mg hemoglobin and number of platelets, respectively. Substrates used for COMT assay were: 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; for MAO determination: tyramine, tryptamine and phenylethylamine. Interindividual as well as intraindividual differences in the biochemical characteristics (apparent Km, Vmax, IC50, meta/para ratio of O-methylation in vitro) were remarkably low, the coefficient of variation was in the range of 30%.
We analyzed contents of tobacco root exudates in 0-20 cm and 20-40 cm soil where tobacco had grown for 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years in order to investigate variation of exudates in tobacco field and identify allelochemicals. The results showed that the content of benzoic acid, 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3-oxygen-4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and phthalic acid dioctyl ester in tobacco field were high, of which 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid was the highest, and the content of 4-hydroxybutyric acid and glycerin were low. Hydroxybutyric acid, 3-methyl-2-hydroxy butyric acid, 4-hydroxybutyric acid, cinnamic acid, oleic acid, stearic acid amide and nicotine had no direct allelopathic influence to tobacco. The decomposition rates of cinnamic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid, phthalic acid, 3-hydroxy benzoic acid, dioctyl phthalate, 4-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid and myristic acid were less than 50%. We proposed that the following acids were allelochemicals, including benzoic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, lauric acid, oterephthalic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, myristic acid, palmitic acid, 9,12-octadecadienoic acid, acrylic acid, scopoletin, cinnamic acid, phthalic acid dioctyl phthalate and 4- hydroxyphenylacetic acid.
The interaction of oxovanadium(IV) with ligands containing phenolate and carboxylate donors, such as salicylic acid, catechol, 2,x-dihydroxybenzoic acids (x= 3–6), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid has been studied in aqueous solution by means of potentiometric and spectroscopic (electronic absorption, e.s.r., and electron nuclear double resonance) techniques. Over the low pH range the salicyclic acid-type mode of co-ordination predominates, while the catechol type is preferred in basic media. A mixture of these donor sets is observed in the ternary oxovanadium(IV)–salicylic acid-catechol and binary oxovanadium(IV)-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid systems. Besides monomeric complexes, dinuclear species are also formed by the potentially ambidentate dihydroxybenzoic acid derivatives over the intermediate pH range. In the latter complexes both CO2– and O– groups take part in metal bridging.
Alectra sessiliflora (Vahl) Kuntze (Scrophulariaceae) is traditionally used in western Kenya in the management of microbial infections. The water, chloroform and methanol extracts of A. sessiliflora whole plant exhibited antimicrobial activity against a range of bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Shigella dysenteriae and Bacillus pumilus) and fungi (Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger and Cryptococcus neoformans). The methanol extract exhibited the highest activity with minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 3.13-6.25 and 3.13-12.5 mg/ml for bacteria and fungi, respectively. Chromatographic fractionation of the methanol extract through non-polar D101 macroporous resin beads yielded three bioactive compounds: two phenolic compounds, pcoumaric acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, and a flavonoid, luteolin. The compounds exhibited appreciable activities against tested bacteria and fungi with MIC values ranging from 0.13 to 0.25 and 0.13 to 0.50 mg/ml, respectively. These constituents might be responsible either individually or collectively for the traditional use of the plant to manage bacterial and fungal ailments. The in vitro antimicrobial activity and isolation of bioactive compounds from this plant are being reported for the first time.
Fenton reaction, which involves hydrogen peroxide and ferrous ion, has been proposed as an efficient option for effluent treatment. In this work, the treatment of a pulp bleaching effluent using Fenton-type reactions assisted by either, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) and 1,2-dihydroxybenzene (CAT), were studied. The treatment was evaluated by the removal of adsorbable organochloride compounds (AOX) and toxicity. Furthermore, the degradation of 2-chlorophenol and 4-chlorophenol in aqueous solutions were carried out, separately. Increase in oxidative activities of Fenton-type reactions mediated by the dihydroxybenzenes (DHBs) were found. These activities enhancement were related with a higher production of activated species by Fe/DHBs/H 2 O 2 , as indicted by chemiluminesce. The large decrease in AOX values and toxicity of the treated bleaching effluent by DHBs at pH 4.0 and 7.0 showed that 2,3-DHBA enhanced the activity of the Fenton reaction. The use of 3,4-DHBA and CAT resulted in loss of efficiencies of Fenton reaction to effluent treatment but not to pure chlorophenol solutions. At pH 7.0 lower efficiencies than those at pH 4.0 were achieved.
We recently reported on the ability of a microbial consortium eluted from dioxin-contaminated Passaic River sediments to dechlorinate polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) through peridechlorination of 2,3,7,8-substituted hepta- to penta-CDDs resulting in the transient production of 2,3,7,8-tetra-CDD and through perilateral dechlorination pathway of non-2,3,7,8-substituted congeners. The dechlorination of PCDDs under combined reductive activities of the same microbial community and model humic constituents (MHCs) (resorcinol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid [3,4-DHBA], and catechol) was investigated. Model humic constituents alone caused reductive dechlorination of PCDDs, resulting in the production of hepta-, hexa-, and tetra-CDD congeners. Whereas abiotic MHC-stimulated dechlorination ceased at the tetra-CDD group of congeners, microbial activity caused further dechlorination to tri-, di-, and mono-CDDs. Combined with the microbial community, MHCs effected the appearance of a new profile of tetra through mono-CDD congeners that was distinguishable from either microbially or MHC-stimulated processes alone. An important overall trend could be discerned: the peridechlorination of PCDDs was promoted by MHCs, resulting in both a relative and an absolute (except for 3,4-DHBA) increase of 2,3,7,8-tetra-CDD relative to either microbially or MHC-stimulated dechlorination. This study indicates that, aside from direct deposition, the increase of 2,3,7,8-tetra-CDD concentrations in the environment may result from combined biotic and abiotic PCDD dechlorination.
In order to elucidate the metabolism of chlorogenic acid by environmental microbes, a strain of Sphingomonas sp. isolated from tobacco leaves was cultured under various conditions, and chlorogenic acid degradation and its metabolites were investigated. The strain converting chlorogenic acid was newly isolated and identified as a Sphingomonas sp. strain by 16S rRNA sequencing. The optimal conditions for growth and chlorogenic acid degradation were 37 °C and pH 7.0 with supplementation of 1.5 g/l (NH4)2SO4 as the nitrogen source and 2 g/l chlorogenic acid as the sole carbon source. The maximum chlorogenic acid tolerating capability for the strain was 5 g/l. The main metabolites were identified as caffeic acid, shikimic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid based on gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis. The analysis reveals the biotransformation mechanism of chlorogenic acid in microbial cells isolated from the environment.
The secondary metabolites are the products of interac tion of the producing organism with its environment and have a restricted occurrence. Many have economical importance as, e.g. drugs, antioxidants, flavors, fra grances, dyes, insecticides and pheromones (Verpoorte et al. 2002). Secondary metabolites can be classified according to their biosynthetic building blocks or their carbon skeleton. The C6C1 compounds are compounds having an aromatic six-carbon ring with one carbon attached. They are generally derived from the shikimate pathway (Dewick 2002). The shikimate pathway, restricted to microorganisms and plants, includes seven metabolic steps, starting with phosphoenolpyruvate and D-erythrose-4-phosphate, and ending with chorismate (an important metabolic branch point) (Fig. 1). All enzymes involved have been purified and the cDNAs characterized from some prokaryotes and eukaryotes (Herrmann and Weaver 1999). In plants, the pathway is localized in plastids.Gallic acid and protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) are C6C1 compounds that can derive from either shikimate pathway (by dehydration and dehydrogenation of 3 dehydroshikimic acid) or phenylalanine pathway (via 3,4,5-trihydroxycinnamic acid) (Torssell 1997; Ossipov et al. 2003). Gallic acid can also derive from orsellinic acid via the polyketide pathway by decarboxylation and oxidation (Torssell 1997). This review will focus on chorismate-derived C6C1 compounds in plants, includ
Green tea contains relatively large amounts of catechins, that have been recognized to be efficient free-radical scavengers. In spite of a largely described antioxidant effect, the metabolic fate of catechins in humans has been scarcely studied. An infusion of green tea (about 400 mg of catechins) was given to healthy volunteers; plasma and urine samples were collected for 5 h and 2 days, respectively. Epigallocatechin gallate and epicatechin gallate were detected in plasma samples, reaching the maximum concentration (2 microM) at 2 h. Urine samples collected at 6-48 h contained detectable amounts of final catechin metabolites, including 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-hippuric acid and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid (vanillic acid). The total content of these metabolites averaged 60 mg. The levels of free plasma catechins account only partly for the increased (approximately +20%) total radical-trapping antioxidant parameter (TRAP) detected after green tea intake. Catechin conjugates (glucuronide and sulphate) and metabolites may add further contribution and explain the measured TRAP increase.
Water-soluble iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) are synthesized from oleate-stabilized particles (IONPs-OA) by replacing oleate moieties with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB) and polyethyleneimine (PEI). Investigation of the obtained composite nanoparticles by TEM, SEM, and AFM methods demonstrated that the parent IONPs-OA particles have a narrow size distribution and that the size of the magnetite core (4.3 nm) was retained in the polyethyleneimine modified IONPs-PEI nanoparticles (4.5 nm). IONPs-PEI exist in the form of separate nanoparticles distributed in the bulk polymer matrix as well as elongated chains (up to 20 nm in length) consisting of 3–6 nanoparticles, and mostly in the form of large clusters (~ 150 nm). The NMR relaxometric properties of IONPs-PEI in the water at various pHs are determined. Relaxivity of such modified nanoparticles remains constant over a wide pH range (3–9) and decreases only in strongly alkaline solutions due to the destruction processes. In the presence of physiological amounts of NaCl (0.15 M), the relaxivity of IONPs-PEI solutions is reduced by 37%. The effect of the addition of various iron(III) chelators is analyzed. Tiron (disodium 4,5-dihydroxy-1,3-benzenedisulfonate) is the only ligand which destroys the polymer-bound IONP system in solution, dissolving the iron oxide core, while other ligands (3,4-DHB, 2,4-DHB, citric acid) do not reduce the relaxation of the composite aqueous solution. The developed polyethyleneimine-modified iron oxide nanoparticles can be regarded as a promising model of a contrast agent for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
The utility of a deactivated metal capillary column, Rascot, in the measurement of an enzymatic reaction, in this case measurement of rat catechol-O-methyltransferase activity, was examined. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzylalcohol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were used as substrates and the m- and p-O-methylated products were separated by using Rascot after derivatization. The peaks on the chromatograms were symmetrical. The data obtained were compared with those reported in previously published papers. Good agreement with previous results proved that Rascot is able to withstand practical use in biological materials.
After growth ofK. aerogenes in chemically defined media consisting of mineral salts andp-hydroxybenzoate with or without glucose, phenol was found in the culture fluid at concentrations inhibiting further growth. Bacteria adapted to mineral salts medium containingp-hydroxybenzoate as sole source of carbon and energy produced small but isolable quantities of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and catechol and oxidized these substances as rapidly asp-hydroxybenzoate. Bacteria adapted to mineral salts medium containing glucose as sole carbon and energy source did not oxidizep-hydroxybenzoate, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate or catechol. Bacteria adapted to glucose medium or top-hydroxybenzoate medium did not oxidize or utilize phenol as sole carbon and energy source. A metabolic pathway forp-hydroxybenzoate degradation is proposed and the formation of phenol is attributed to a side reaction.
The DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl) radical scavenging activity of protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) and its related catechols was examined. Compounds possessing strong electron-withdrawing substituents showed high activity. NMR analysis of the reaction mixtures of catechols and DPPH radical in methanol showed the formation of methanol adducts. The results suggest that high radical scavenging activity of catechols in alcohol is due to a nucleophilic addition of an alcohol molecule on o-quinones, which leads to a regeneration of a catechol structure. Furthermore, the radical scavenging activity in alcohols would largely depend on the electron-withdrawing/donating substituents, since they affect the susceptibility toward nucleophilic attacks on o-quinone.
Nine compounds were isolated from the fruits of Silybum marianum and identified as flavonolignans: silybin(1),silychristin(2),2,3-dehydrosilychristin(3),2,3-dehydrosilybin(4);flavonoids: 4'-methoxy taxifolin(5),taxifolin(6),dihydrokaempferol(7),quercetin(8) and phenolic acids: 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(9).Compounds 5,7 and 9 were isolated from this genus for the first time.
The oxidation by H2O2 of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB) in aqueous/goethite slurry at varying operating conditions (catalyst load, temperature, pH, substrate and hydrogen peroxide starting concentration) is investigated. At adopted catalyst loads the observed kinetic developments are consistent with a non-radicalic oxidation mechanism involving the interaction between hydrogen peroxide and 3,4-DHB acid both adsorbed on the active sites of the catalyst. The temperature dependence of rate parameters for the proposed model is also assessed. r 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dietary flavonoids can be converted into phenolic acids by colonic microflora. Phenolic acids can then be absorbed into the circulation and may contribute to the health-promoting effects of the parent compounds. Phenolic acids can be further metabolized in other tissues via methylation and conjugation with glucuronide or sulfate. The objectives of this study were to identify and quantify the urinary excretion of 19 phenolic acids and their conjugates in rats fed three levels of a concentrated cranberry powder (3.3, 6.6, and 33 mg/kg of diet). The basic diet used was AIN93G diet containing very low amounts of any polyphenolic compounds. Of the phenolic acids studied, the amounts excreted varied by 4 orders of magnitude, with hippuric acid being excreted in the highest quantities. Amounts of 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (4HPAA), 3-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (3HPAA), 3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid (3HPPA), and 4-hydroxycinnamic acid (4HCA) excreted were in the range of 18-33 microg/mg creatinine in animals fed the highest level of cranberry powder, whereas phenylacetic acid (PAA), gallic acid (GA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (34HPAA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (34HBA), 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid (34HCA), and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid (FA) were excreted in the urine in concentrations of 0.1-2 microg/mg creatinine. As the amount of cranberry in the diet was increased, the amount of 4HPAA excreted decreased but the percentage of conjugated 4HPAA excreted increased (from 57 to 91%). For other phenolic acids analyzed, the percentage excreted in the conjugated form was approximately constant across levels of cranberry in the diet and ranged from 65 to 100% for the individual phenolic acids. Studies of bioactivity and health effects need to consider more than just the compound(s) in the food, because they can be metabolized to other lower molecular weight compounds, which in turn may also be methylated or conjugated in some form that may affect the perceived health effects.
Cuticular phenoloxidase(s) from Sarcophaga bullata larvae oxidized a variety of o-diphenolic compounds. While catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, dopa, dopamine, and norepinephrine were converted to their corresponding quinone derivatives, other catechols such as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl alcohol, 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl glycol, 3,4-dihy-droxymandelic acid, and N-acetyldopamine were oxidized to their side-chain oxygenated products. In addition, the enzyme-catalyzed oxidation of the latter group of compounds accompanied the formation of colorless catecholcuticle adducts consistent with the operation of β-sclerotization. Radioactive trapping experiments failed to support the participation of 1,2-dehydro-N-acetyldopamine as a freely formed intermediate during phenoloxidase-mediated oxidation of N-acetyldopamine. When specifically tritiated substrates were provided, cuticular enzyme selectively removed tritium from [7-3H]N-acetyldopamine and not from either [8-3H] or [ring-3H]N-acetyldopamine during the initial phase of oxidation. The above results are consistent with the generation and subsequent reactions of quinone methides as the initial products of enzyme-catalyzed N-acetyldopamine oxidation and confirm our hypothesis that quinone methides and not 1,2-dehydro-N-acetyldopamine are the reactive intermediate of β-sclerotization of sarcophagid cuticle. Quinone methide sclerotization resolves a number of conflicting observations made by previous workers in this field.
Abstract Eight new complexes of the formula [M(X-X)(DPA)] (where M≡Pd(II) or Pt(II), DPA is 2,2′-dipyridylamine and X-X are various dianions of catechol (CAT) and its derivatives, such as 4-methylcatechol (MCAT), 4- tert -butylcatechol (TBCAT), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (DHB) were synthesized and characterized. The absorption spectra and electrochemistry of these complexes are discussed. The complexes were found to sensitize the oxidation of 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinol in N , N -dimethylformamide (DMF) to the nitroxide radical. This photo-oxidation reaction involves singlet molecular oxygen ( 1 O 2 ) as an intermediate and its presence was confirmed by quenching studies using bis (diethyldithiocarbamato) nickel(II), a well-known 1 O 2 quencher. The ability of the complexes to photosensitize the above photo-oxidation reaction follows the order: [Pt(DHBA)(DPA)]>[Pt(DHB)(DPA)]>[Pt(CAT)(DPA)]⪢[Pd(CAT)(DPA)]>[Pd(DHBA)-(DPA)]>[Pd(MCAT)(DPA)]>[Pd(TBCA)(DPA)]>[Pd(DHB)(DPA)]. This order depends on the nature of the metal ion, the nature of the mixed ligands in the complexes and the distorted square planar geometry of the complexes.
Abstract Rhodobacter sphaeroides OU5 utilized l -phenylalanine as sole source of nitrogen for growth. The metabolites of l -phenylalanine catabolism, i.e. 4-hydroxy phenylalanine ( l -tyrosine), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-pyruvic acid (DOPP), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyllactic acid (DOPLA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid (DOPAc) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (PC), were identified using liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (LC-MS). With 2-oxoglutarate as an amino acceptor, DOPA aminotransferase activity was observed with cell-free extracts and the product DOPP was confirmed through mass analysis. Reductive deamination of DOPA also occurred in the absence of 2-oxoglutarate, whose products were 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid (DPPA) and ammonia. The enzyme DOPA-reductive deaminase (DOPARDA) was purified to its homogeneity and characterized. DOPARDA has an obligate requirement for NADH and is functional at low concentrations of the substrate (
The preparation of [Ru(NH3)4(diox-COO)], where diox-COO is 3,4-diolatobenzoate, was achieved using pentamminechlororuthenium(III) chloride and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid in basic medium. The neutral quinone complex is extremely soluble in water and easily purified by ion-exchange chromatography. The chemical or electrochemical reduction, in acidic medium, produces cis-[Ru(NH3)4(H2O)2]2+, indicating this dioxolene ruthenium complex to be a useful precursor to prepare cis-tetraammineruthenium(II) or ruthenium(III) species.
Naproxen is a one of the most popular non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) entering the environment as a result of high consumption. For this reason, there is an emerging need to recognize mechanisms of its degradation and enzymes engaged in this process. Planococcus sp. S5 is a gram positive strain able to degrade naproxen in monosubstrate culture (27%). However, naproxen is not a suf-ficient growth substrate for this strain. In the presence of benzoate, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or vanillic acid as growth substrates, the degradation of 21.5%, 71.71%, 14.75% and 8.16% of naproxen was observed respectively. It was shown that the activity of monooxygenase, hydroxyquinol 1,2-dioxygenase, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase and protocatechuate 4,5-dioxyegnase in strain S5 was induced after growth of the strain with naproxen and 4-hydroxybenzoate. Moreover, in the presence of naproxen activity of gentisate 1,2-dioxygenase, enzyme engaged in 4-hydroxybenzoate metabolism, was completely inhibited. The obtained results suggest that monooxygenase and hydroxyquinol 1,2-dioxygenase are the main enzymes in naproxen degradation by Planococcus sp. S5.
The extremely thermophilic eubacterium Fervidobacterium islandicum AW-1 produces low molecular weight (LMW; < 1 kDa) keratin peptides (KPs) from poultry feathers at 70°C. However, detection and quantification of feather hydrolysate-derived peptides is needed for optimizing fermentation and down-stream processes. Herein, we developed a large-scale fermentation and purification of skin anti-aging LMW KPs from recalcitrant feathers using fluorescence-based quantification of N-terminal prolinecontaining KPs derivatized with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid to yield fluorescent adducts. Fluorescent products were correlated with bioactive KP concentrations in keratin fractions and cosmetic formulations. Subsequent anaerobic fermentative keratinolysis and large-scale purification achieved 4.4 g/L LMW KPs from 8 g/L native feathers in a 5 L batch bioreactor, generating 0.8 g/L purified MMP-1 suppressive KPs (yield = 1.2%). This demonstrated the feasibility of industrial-scale anaerobic feather digestion and purification of LMW KPs to produce skin anti-aging peptides from keratin hydrolysates in a more environmentally sustainable manner.
Multisubstrate adducts of the indole N-methyltransferase reaction have been designed in which a structural moiety representing the nucleophilic methyl acceptor is attached through the sulfur atom to the 5-(methylthio)adenosine and/or methionine moieties of the methyl donor, S-adenosyl-L-methionine. Indole derivatives attached through a 4-(3-indolyl)butyl sulfide or a 3-(3-indolyl)propyl sulfide linkage to 5'-thioadenosine or homocysteine have been synthesized, together with their corresponding methylsulfonium salts. These compounds have been assayed for their ability to inhibit rabbit lung indole N-methyltransferase. The adenosylsulfonium salts (5'-deoxyadenosyl)[4-(3-indolyl)but-1-yl]methylsulfonium perchlorate and (5'-deoxyadenosyl)[3-(3-indolyl)prop-1-yl]-methylsulfonium perchlorate were found to be inhibitors of this enzyme with Ki's of 12 and 44 microM, respectively. Neither of these compounds was effective in inhibiting the methylation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, catalyzed by purified porcine catechol O-methyltransferase.
Several organisms were tested for their ability to degrde dt-synephrine. One soil pseudomonad and a Nocardia sp have been found to efficiently utilise the compound. Norardia sp degrded synephrine by two novel routes, one involving monoamine oxidase and the other involving converston to p-hydroxyphenyl-acetaldehyde by the synephrinase enzymc The p-hydroxyphenyl-acetaldehyde was converted to p-hydroxyphenylacetic acid and finally to 2.5-dihydroxyphcnylacetic ncid which underwent ring fission between C1 and C2 atoms. The monoammine oxidase converted synephrine to p-hydroxymandehcaldehyde which was finally oxidized to 3-4-dihydroxybenzoic acid through the intermediate formation of p-hydroxymandelic acid, p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid which cleaved by an ozygenase through an orthofission. The route involving synephrinase was the major degradative pathway. However, the two pathways were found to operate simultaneously.
Naproxen is a one of the most popular non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) entering the environment as a result of high consumption. For this reason, there is an emerging need to recognize mechanisms of its degradation and enzymes engaged in this process. Planococcus sp. S5 is a gram positive strain able to degrade naproxen in monosubstrate culture (27%). However, naproxen is not a sufficient growth substrate for this strain. In the presence of benzoate, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid or vanillic acid as growth substrates, the degradation of 21.5%, 71.71%, 14.75% and 8.16% of naproxen was observed respectively. It was shown that the activity of monooxygenase, hydroxyquinol 1,2-dioxygenase, protocatechuate 3,4-dioxygenase and protocatechuate 4,5-dioxyegnase in strain S5 was induced after growth of the strain with naproxen and 4-hydroxybenzoate. Moreover, in the presence of naproxen activity of gentisate 1,2-dioxygenase, enzyme engaged in 4-hydroxybenzoate metabolism, was completely inhibited. The obtained results suggest that monooxygenase and hydroxyquinol 1,2-dioxygenase are the main enzymes in naproxen degradation by Planococcus sp. S5. K e y w o r d s: Planococcus, biodegradation, naproxen, enzymes induction, aromatic plant compounds
Protocatechuic acid (PCA), also known as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, is an abundantly and naturally distributed phenolic acid (15) . It has been reported to have antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer activity (16) (17) (18) (19) . Experimental findings demonstrate the promising anti-inflammatory and analgesic activity of PCA in rats and mice, including in a Freund's adjuvant-induced arthritis rat model (19) . PCA has recently been found to inhibit the differentiation of osteoclasts and induce apoptosis of mature osteoclasts by regulating oxidative stress and inflammation (20) . The present study was designed to investigate the positive effects of PCA on anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) transection (ACLT)-induced OA. Furthermore, an attempt was made to understand the underlying mechanisms of action behind the antiarthritic activity of PCA.
The effect of harvest periods on total phenol, antioxidant activity, individual phenolic compounds of fruit and leaves of Tavsan Yuregi, Memecik, Edremit, Ayvalik and Gemlik olive varieties grown in Turkey were investigated. The highest total phenol (317.70 mg/100 g and 2657.81 mg/100 g) were observed in Tavsan Yuregi olive fruit and Ayvalik leaves harvested in December, respectively. The highest antioxidant activities (83.84%) were determined in Edremit fruit harvested in August and 83.33% in either Edremit olive leaves harvested in November and Tavsan Yuregi leaves harvested in December. The olive fruit contained gallic acid ranging from 7.18 mg/100 g (August) to 35.85 mg/100 g (December) in case of Ayvalik and 2.09 mg/100 g (November) to 21.62 mg/100 g (December) in Edremit. Gemlik olives showed higher gallic acid contents compared to the other varieties, however it depended significantly on harvest time in all cases. 3,4-Dihydroxybenzoic acid contents ranged from 33.11 mg/100 g (October) to 25.17 mg/100 g (September) in Memecik olives; 12.17 mg/100 g (August) to 33.11 mg/100 g (December) in case of Tavsan Yuregi olives depending on harvest time. The 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid contents of Memecik leaves ranged between 122.25 mg/100 g (September) to 196.58 mg/100 g (August) and that of Tavsan Yuregi leaves changed between 99.38 mg/100 g (November) and 179.90 mg/100 g (August). The leaves of these two varieties contained significantly (p < 0.01) higher 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid contents than other varieties. The highest gallic acid (144.83 mg/100 g) was detected in Memecik leaves (September) whereas lowest were found in Gemlik leaves collected in October.
The degradation of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) in the presence and absence of Pb(2+) under UV illumination was studied. Addition of Pb(2+) caused the formation of precipitate during photoreaction when the solution pH was higher than 6. The presence of Pb(2+) remarkably inhibited the degradation of 3,4-DHBA and its photodegradation intermediates, while complexation of 3,4-DHBA and its photodegradation intermediates with Pb(2+) decreased the free Pb(2+) in aqueous solutions. Molecular oxygen played an important role in photodegradation of 3,4-DHBA in the presence of Pb(2+). UV-Vis spectroscopy was used to investigate the interaction between Pb(2+) and 3,4-DHBA at different pH conditions, and FT-IR was used to characterize the precipitate formed during photoreaction. The mineralization of 3,4-DHBA was investigate by total organic carbon analysis.
The effect of various environmentally friendly chemical additives and natural products on the dissolution of amorphous silica (Aerosil 200 and laboratory-synthesized, SSD) is studied. The silica scale dissolvers tested include the following: ascorbic acid (vitamin C, ASC), citric acid (CITR), carboxymethyl inulin (CMI), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (catechuic acid, DHBA), 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid, GA), dopamine hydrochloride (DOPA), iminodiacetic acid (IDA), histidine (HIST), phenylalanine (PHALA), and malic acid (MAL). The chemical structures of these chemical additives contain potentially dissolution-active moieties, such as 1,2-dihydroxyethylene (ASC), α-hydroxycarboxylate (MAL and CITR), catecholate (DHBA, GA, and DOPA), α-aminocarboxylate (HIST and PHALA, both aminoacids), and finally carboxy-modified fructofuranose units (CMI). It was found that all studied molecules showed variable dissolution efficiency, with MAL, CMI, HIST, and PHALA being the slowest/least effective dissolvers, and...
Objective: To investigate the association between the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity and the development and progression of endometrial cancer. Methods: The in vitro reaction system was established and the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DBA) was used as a substrate. The concentration of final product 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid (4-OH-3-MBA) which indicated the activity of COMT was detected by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The COMT activity in the endometrial cancer tissues and the normal endometrial tissues (as the control) was examined and compared, and the COMT activity in the peripheral blood was also detected. Results: The essential biologically active form of COMT was soluble-COMT (S-COMT) in the endometrial tissues. The S-COMT activity level was higher in the endometrial tissues than that in the peripheral blood (P = 0.000), but it was highest in the normal endometrial tissues (P = 0.001). The S-COMT activity level in the poorly differentiated endometrial cancer tissues was lower than those in the moderately and well differentiated endometrial cancer tissues (P = 0.042). Conclusion: The variation in COMT activity level in the endometrial tissues is associated with the development and progression of endometrial cancer. DOI:10.3781/j.issn.1000-7431.2012.02.008
The anaerobic degradation of phenolic compounds depends greatly on their molecular structure. We have undertaken a systematic study on several phenol derivatives which are commonly found in industrial waters with the aim of investigating the structure–biodegradation relationship for bacteria in anaerobic conditions. The Thauera aromatica strain was used; this bacterium is able to use phenol as a sole carbon source in liquid cultures in the absence of molecular oxygen. Nitrate is the electron sink with complete reduction to N2. A systematic study has demonstrated the ability of this bacterial strain to use 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid (p-coumaric acid), 4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid (ferulic acid), 3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid (veratric acid), and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (gallic acid) as substrate. The matching of the depletion of the concentration of such compounds with the increment in bacterial growth in the cultures demonstrates that the substrates are used as the sole carbon ...
The present study aims to investigate the potential antiviral activity of protocatechuic acid (PCA) and its mechanism against infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) infection. In the curative test, dosages of PCA of 40, 20, and 10 mg/kg, the survival rate was 90, 90, and 60%, respectively, and the BW gain was 36.63, 31.85, and 51.8%, respectively. The survival rate for the Astragalus polysaccharide (ASP) group was significantly lower than those of the birds treated with 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg of PCA. The bursa indeces of chickens in 40 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, and ASP groups were significantly higher than that of the infection group, whereas a significant increase of the spleen index was found in birds with 20 mg/kg PCA in comparison with other challenged groups. The birds treated with 20 mg/kg or 40 mg/kg of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid also showed slightly higher levels of IBDV clearance in the bursa of Fabricius. Furthermore, the chickens treated with 20 mg/kg of PCA induced a significant lymphocyte proliferation and a significant increase in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio in comparison with the ASP chickens. These results imply that chickens treated with 20 mg/kg of PCA for 5 d could effectively induce active nonspecific immune responses against the IBDV infection.
Chemical constituents of dichloromethane extract of Sibiraea angustata(Rehd.) Hand.-Mazz.were isolated and purified by silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography and determined with physichemical and spectral methods.Nine compounds were obtained and identified as vanillin(1),methyl ferulic acid(2),p-methoxy cinnamic acid(3),N,N′-dicyclohexylurea(4),valencic acid(5),ω-hydroxypropiovanillone(6),isoferulic acid(7),caffeic acid(8) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(9).Compounds other than 2,7 and 8 were all reported for the first time from this plant.Compound 5 and 6 were obtained from family Rosaceae for the first time,and compound 4 obtained from plants for the first time.Such data are useful for further research and development.
Histamine dihydrochloride, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxybenzoic acid, S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine and L-methionine-dl-sulfoximine (MSO) were 73
The hydrolysis of OO′-benzylidene-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is considerably faster than that of OO′-benzylidene-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and OO′-benzylidenecatechol. The pH-rate profile is of the form: kobs=k1/(1 +Ka/10–pH). The high rate is associated with the k1-term which probably arises from intramolecular general-acid catalysis. This kinetic parameters of this reaction are compared with those for the formally analogous inter-molecularly general-acid catalysed hydrolysis of benzylidenecatechol. OO′-Benzylidene-2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid is not intramolecularly hydrogen bonded in dilute solutions in carbon tetrachloride.
Objective: To study the chemical constituents of Bauhinia aurea.Method: The compounds were isolated with column chromatography.The structures were determined by MS and NMR spectroscopic techniques.Result: Nine aromatic acid derivatives,two triterpenes and three steroids were isolated from the 90% ethanolic extract and their structures were identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(1),() 4-hydroxybenzoic acid(2),() 3-hydroxy-4-methoxy-benzoic acid(3),() 4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid(4),() gallic acid(5),() methyl gallate(6),() ethyl gallate(7),() lupeol(8),() lupenone(9),() stigmast-4-en-3-one(10),()β-sitosterol(11)() and daucosterol(12).Conclusion: This is the first report of chemical constituents from B.aurea.Compounds were isolated from this genus for the first time,except 5,8,11() and 12.
Defatted cinnamon fruit powder was successively extracted with benzene ethyl acetate, acetone, MeOH, and water. The concentrated water extract contained the maximum amount of phenolics and showed the highest antioxidant activities. Hence, it was fractionated by Diaion HP-20SS, Diaion HP-20, and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatographies. It gave five purified compounds, the purities of which were analyzed by HPLC. Compounds 1−5 were identified as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), epicatechin-(2β→O-7,4β→8)-epicatechin-(4β→8)-epicatechin (cinnamtannin B-1), 4-[2,3-dihydro-3-(hydroxymethyl)-5-(3-hydroxypropyl)-7-(methoxy)benzofuranyl]-2-methoxyphenyl β-d-glucopyranoside (urolignoside), quercetin-3-O-(6-O-α-l-rhamnopyranosyl)-β-d-glucopyranoside (rutin), and quercetin-3-O-α-l-rhamnopyranoside by using extensive spectral studies. The antioxidant activities of purified compounds were screened for their antioxidative potential using β-carotene−linoleate and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl model systems....
The self-assembled monolayer of cystamine was prepared on gold electrode and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) was electrochemically deposited on cystamine surface as a functional group by electrostatic adsorption, namely, molecular deposition. It shows that the MD/SAM structure has a higher stability, and E-1/2 of the DBAH in MD/SAM shifts more negative than that of on naked gold electrode, The n-decanethiol was also used to fill defects in MD/SAM, it results in much better cyclic voltermmetric behavior.
Abstract Phenolic acid allelochemicals released by decomposing foliage can have negative impacts on growth of plants and microbes in soil. However, these chemicals can potentially be degraded by broad-spectrum endophytic fungi such as, Phomopsis liquidambari (strain B3), which is capable of growing on phenolic 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HBA) as the sole carbon and energy source. In this study, the optimum concentration of 4-HBA supplied in culture as the carbon source was determined to be 600 mg L −1 , with maximum biomass of fungal growth and, 94% and 99% degraded by P. liquidambari in liquid culture and soil conditions, respectively, within 48 h. The fungal metabolic pathway of 4-HBA was investigated using high performance liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (HPLC–MS) and gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC–MS). The results showed that 4-HBA was first hydroxylated to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, converted to catechol and then oxidated to cis , cis -muconic acid in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. The benzene ring was opened through ortho catechol cleavage. During the course of fungal incubation, activities of three main 4-HBA degradation pathway enzymes exhibited a continuous cascading pattern of induction. 4-HBA hydroxylase showed the highest activity after 8 h of incubation, with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid decarboxylase reaching a peak at 24 h and catechol 1,2-dioxygenase peaking at 32 h, which corresponded with changes in corresponding substrate concentrations. These results indicated the bioremediation potential of this endophytic fungus to degrade accumulated phenolic acid allelochemicals in soil to alleviate the effects of their ecological suppression.
Abstract Changes in the soil labile C pools induced by vegetation rehabilitation on semiarid lands are assumed to correlate with changes in the microbial catabolic profiles. To verify this, soil was sampled under the canopies of 12-year-old (R12Y) and 30-year-old (R30Y) planted Caragana microphylla shrubs, as well as native C. microphylla shrubs, all located in the Horqin Sandy Land, China. Community Level Physiological Profiles (CLPPs) of soils were determined to reveal any qualitative and quantitative shifts in soil microbial catabolism linked with the revegetation process. water-soluble C (WSC) and hot-water extractable C (HWEC) were measured to indicate the availability of labile C pools. As the restoration proceeds, soil organic C (C org ) increased 2–3 times at the R30Y habitat compared to the R12Y habitat. The total utilization rate of the 15 C substrates also increased from 0.68 μg CO 2 -C g −1 soil h −1 at the R12Y habitat to 4.90 μg CO 2 -C g −1 soil h −1 at the R30Y habitat, but a slight decline in catabolic diversity, from 2.53 to 2.29, was recorded. Principal component analysis and redundancy analysis revealed that soil microbial communities colonizing the R12Y habitat exhibited an affinity to carbohydrates, which positively correlated to the relative concentration of WSC. Those colonizing the R30Y and native habitats mainly preferred carboxylic acids and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid due to higher C org content and relative concentration of HWEC.
Studies by Lindstrom and Osterberg (1986) on softwood Kraft pulp bleach liquors have identified a large number of chlorinated acids including a new series of chlorinated keto acids. The chloracetic acids were found to be the major component but many chlorinated aromatics, such as, 2-furancarboxylic acid, chlorothiophenedicarboxylic acid and isomers of dichloro-4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic and dichloro-3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids were present. The compounds were identified using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and a total of thirty-one carboxylic acids were quantified.
The fruit of Chaenomeles speciosa is a traditional Chinese medicine used for the treatment of dyspepsia and various inflammatory diseases. In the present study, we evaluated the potential radical scavenging capacity, and activity against nitrous oxide, inflammatory cytokines production and neuramindase (NA) of its isolates. The results showed that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) displayed higher inhibitory activities on DPPH and NA with IC(50) values of 1.02 mg/mL and 1.27 mg/mL respectively, and quercetin (2) also showed significant inhibitory action on DPPH and NA, with IC(50 )values of 3.82 mg/mL and 1.90 mg/mL. Compounds 1, 2 and methyl 3-hydroxybutanedioic ester (3) could inhibit the production of TNF-a by 22.73%, 33.14% and 37.19% at 5 mg/mL (P < 0.05) compared with the control. In addition, compound 2 was found to be active on the release of IL-6 in RAW264.7 macrophage cells, with an inhibitory rate of 39.79% (P < 0.05). The anti-inflammatory effect of compound 3 is disclosed for the first time in this study. Avian influenza is usually accompanied by virus invasion followed by the occurrence of oxidative stress and serious inflammation, so the multiple effects of the isolates may play a cocktail-like role in the treatment of avian influenza, and C. speciosa components, especially quercetin, might be a potent source for anti-viral and anti-inflammatory agents.
abstract Results of quantum chemical calculations based on B3LYP/6-31+G are reported for 3,4-dihydroxyphe-nylpyruvic acid (3,4-DHPPA), 3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid (3,4-DHCA) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3,4-DHBA) chelated with Cu 2+ ,Mgand Ca 2+ . These results are discussed in regard to the capacity ofthese phenolic acids (PAs) to scavenge free radicals in the presence or the absence of a metal ion. TheOAH bond dissociation enthalpies, the HOMO eigenvalues, the NBO charges and the structural changesare parameters that seem to be the best indicators of the antiradical property of these PAs. These param-eters indicate that the antioxidant activity of the PAs are ordered as follows: 3,4-DHPPA > 3,4-DHCA > 3,4-DHBA. The C 7 @C 8 double bond, and the O 8 H 8 O 9 intramolecular hydrogen bond present inthe side chain are inﬂuential in determining this activity. We also showed that the chelation with a metalion led to the oxidation of the PAs and the reduction of the metal ion, a behaviour evidenced by chargetransfer from the PAs to the ion. This tendency is more pronounced for the copper ion for which we reg-istered a charge transfer of roughly 1.02e. Chelation with a metal ion led to important structural changesat the site of chelation and contributed to the decrease of the Bond Dissociation Enthalpy (BDE). It greatlyfacilitated the hydrogen atom transfer and consequently enhanced the antioxidant activity of the PAs. 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Summary Pea seeds as well as sprouts and roots contain two isoenzymes of shikimate dehydrogenase. Both isoenzymes can be separated by Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as well as through ammonium sulfate fractionation. The molecular weight of both isoenzymes are the same although the net electric charge is different. The Km value for isoenzyme 1 is 3,5 × 10 −4 and the Km value for isoenzyme 2 is 1,67 × 10 −4 M. 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid, anthranilic acid and p-methoxycinnamic acid inhibited both isoenzymes competitively. Anthranlic acid showed the largest affinity to both isoenzymes. M-methoxycinnamic acid and m-nitrocinnamic acid inhibited both isoenzymes non-com-petitively. Isoenzyme 2 was always less inhibited than isoenzyme 1. Isoenzyme 1 could be located in the microbodies while isoenzyme 2 could be located in the cytosol.
Noroviruses are the most frequent cause of foodborne viral gastroenteritis, causing approximately 90% of non-bacterial epidemic outbreaks around the world. Mulberry (Morus alba) seeds are by-products of juice and wine industries. Antiviral effects of mulberry seed extract (MAS) on foodborne viral surrogates, feline calicivirus-F9 (FCV-F9), and murine norovirus-1 (MNV-1) were evaluated by plaque assays and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Polyphenol compound analysis using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed that caffeic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, rutin, and cyanidin-3-rutinoside were the major compounds of MAS in a decreasing order. Its fraction (MAS-F1) with molecular weight less than 1 kDa, showed a similar composition, except for caffeic acid, a minor component. The maximal antiviral effect of FCV-F9 and MNV-1 was achieved when MAS or MAS-F1 was incubated with FCVF9 and MNV-1 simultaneously added to cells. MAS-F1 further exhibited significant reduction of the MNV-1 or FCV-F9 polymerase gene expression in a dose-dependent manner. Among the polyphenols, cyanidin-3-rutinoside was effective in reducing MNV-1 polymerase gene expression. The inhibition of viral infection by MAS or MAS-F1 against foodborne viral surrogates may occur at the initial stage of viral replication.
Abstract A capillary zone electrophoresis method was optimized to simultaneously separate 16 phenolic compounds present in wines, as well as to evaluate sample on-line preconcentration for detectability improvement. The separated compounds were narirutin, (−)-epicatechin, (+)-catechin, rutin, kaempferol, myricetin, quercetin, morin, trans-resveratrol, cinnamic acid, ferulic acid, p-coumaric acid, vanillic acid, caffeic acid, gallic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. The optimized separation condition was 175 mmol L− 1 boric acid at pH 9.0 and capillary of 50 μm × 68 cm (60 cm effective length). The injection mode showing the greatest detectability (20 fold improvement) was hydrodynamic injection at 50 mbar for 30 s, followed by voltage inversion (− 20 kV for 5 s) before the electrophoretic run. The method was validated and applied with success in a total of 23 samples of red, white, and rose wines. The developed method showed excellent applicability due to the simple extraction procedure and the low volume of reagents used, reducing expenses for reagents and technicians.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; PCA) serves as a building block for polymers and pharmaceuticals. In this study, the biosynthetic pathway for PCA from glucose was engineered in Corynebacterium glutamicum. The pathway to PCA-employed elements of the chorismate pathway by using chorismate-pyruvate lyase (CPL) and 4-hydroxybenzoate hydroxylase (4-HBA hydroxylase). As C. glutamicum has the potential to synthesize the aromatic amino acid intermediate chorismate and possesses 4-HBA hydroxylase, we focused on expressing Escherichia coli CPL in a phenylalanine-producing strain of C. glutamicum ATCC21420. To secrete PCA, the gene (ubiC) encoding CPL from E. coli was expressed in C. glutamicum ATCC 21420 (strain F(UbiC)). The formation of 28.8 mg/L of extracellular 4-HBA (36 h) and 213 ± 29 mg/L of extracellular PCA (80 h) was obtained by the C. glutamicum strain F(UbiC) from glucose. The strain ATCC21420 was also found to produce extracellular PCA. PCA fermentation was performed using C. glutamicum strain F(UbiC) in a bioreactor at the optimized pH of 7.5. C. glutamicum F(UbiC) produced 615 ± 2.1 mg/L of PCA from 50 g/L of glucose after 72 h. Further, fed-batch fermentation of PCA by C. glutamicum F(UbiC) was performed with feedings of glucose every 24 h. The maximum production of PCA (1140.0 ± 11.6 mg/L) was achieved when 117.0 g/L of glucose was added over 96 h of fed-batch fermentation.
Two new dyhydrophaseic acid glucoside isomers, (1'S, 3'R, 5'S, 8'R, 2Z, 4E)-dihydrophaseic acid-3'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (2) and (1'R, 3'S, 5'R, 8'R, 2Z, 4E)-dihydrophaseic acid-3'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (4), together with 10 known compounds [myo-inositol (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), 3-O-galloyl quinic acid (5), ellagic acid (6), gallic acid (7), ethyl gallate (8), scopoletin (9), ellagic acid-4-O-β-D-glucopyranoside (10), ellagic acid-4-O-α-L-rhamnopyranoside (11), and isocorilagin (12)] were isolated from the chloroform extract of Canarium album Raeusch fruits by repeated chromatography on macroporous adsorption resin, silica gel, Sephadex LH-20, Toyopearl HW-40F, and reverse-phase C18 columns, etc. Their structures and absolute configurations were determined by comprehensive analysis of 1D- and 2D-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), high-resolution electron spray ionization mass spectrometry (HR-ESI-MS), ESI-MS, optical rotation, circular dichroism spectra, and comparison of NMR data with data of known compounds. Bioassay of their anti-influenza virus A activities showed that compounds 9 and 12 displayed a significant inhibitory effect with IC50 values of 22.9 ± 3.7 and 5.42 ± 0.97 μg/ml, respectively.
The ability to carry out geranylations on aromatic substrates using enzymatic extracts from the leaves of Piper crassinervium (Piperaceae) was evaluated. A literature analysis pointed out its importance as a source of prenylated bioactive molecules. The screening performed on aromatic acceptors (benzoic acids, phenols and phenylpropanoids) including geranyl diphosphate as prenyl donor, showed the biotransformation of the 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid by the crude extract, and the p-hydroxybenzoic acid by both the microsomal fraction and the crude extract, after treating leaves with glucose. The analysis of the products allowed the identification of C- and O-geranylated derivatives, and the protease (subtilisin and pepsin) inhibition performed on the O-geranylated compounds showed weak inhibition. Electrophoretic profiles indicated the presence of bands/spots among 56-58 kDa and pI 6-7, which are compatible with prenyltransferases. These findings show that P. crassinervium could be considered as a source of extracts with geranyltransferase activity to perform biotransformations on aromatic substrates.
In this paper an ionic liquid modified carbon paste electrode (CILE) was prepared and methylene blue (MB) was electropolymerized on the CILE by using the cyclic voltammetric technique in the potential range from -1.0 V to 0.8 V (vs. SCE). A stable polymer film was obtained and exhibited a pair of redox peaks. The morphology and characteristics of poly(methylene blue) (PMB) film was studied by the techniques such as scanning electron microscopy and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. This PMB modified CILE (PMB/CILE) showed excellent electrocatalytic response to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid with the increase of the electrochemical responses. The oxidation peak current had a linear relationship with 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid concentration in the range of 5.0 x 10 -4 ∼3.0 x 10 -2 mol L -1 and the detection limit was 1.72 x 10 -4 mol L"' (3σ).
The phenoloxidase system responsible for the sclerotization of cockroach ootheca is found to be present as an inactive form in the left colleterial gland of Periplaneta americana. The supernatant fraction obtained by centrifugation of the milky white secretions contained the inactive phenoloxidase which required both sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and the insolubel sediment for exhibiting enzyme activity. Bovine serum albumin could replace the sediment in the activation process. Proteins separated from the supernatant fraction by molecular sieve chromatography on Sephadex G-25 did not require either albumin or the sediment, but required SDS for exhibiting the phenoloxidase activity. Among the detergents tested, SDS (anionic) and cetylpyridinium chloride (cationic) activated the phenoloxidase, but CHAPS (zwitterionic) or nonionic detergents failed to activate the enzyme. The activation caused by SDS occurred well below the critical micellar concentration of SDS indicating that SDS is causing the activation by binding to the protein and altering its conformation. Chloroform-methanol extracts of vestibulum or right gland could replace SDS confirming the presence of endogenous activator(s) of phenoloxidase system. A variety of exogenously added lipids could activate the latent enzyme, among which linoleate, oleate, laurate, linolenate, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylglycerol proved to be the effective activators of the latent phenoloxidase. ::: ::: ::: ::: Partially purified phenoloxidase was found to be extremely labile and lost its activity on (a) freezing and thawing, (b) dialysis, and (c) heating for 10 min at 55°C. It exhibited a pH optimum of 7 and was inhibited drastically by phenylthiourea and diethyldithiocarbamate. It readily oxidized a number of o-diphenols such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzylalcohol, 3,4-dihydroxyphenethyl alcohol, catechol, N-acetyldopamine, N-acetylnorepinephrine, dopa, dopamine, etc., but failed to oxidize both 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde. It neither converted the typical laccase substrate syringaldazine to its quinone methide product, nor oxidized the p-diphenols, hydroquinone and methylhydroquinone. Therefore, the enzyme participating in the quinone tanning of cockroach ootheca appears to be a typical o-diphenol oxidase and not a laccase as previously thought.
The fruit of Chaenomeles speciosa is a traditional Chinese medicine used for the treatment of dyspepsia and various inflammatory diseases. In the present study, we evaluated the potential radical scavenging capacity, and activity against nitrous oxide, inflammatory cytokines production and neuramindase (NA) of its isolates. The results showed that 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (1) displayed higher inhibitory activities on DPPH and NA with IC 50 values of 1.02 g/mL and 1.27 g/mL respectively, and quercetin (2) also showed significant inhibitory action on DPPH and NA, with IC 50 values of 3.82 g/mL and 1.90 g/mL. Compounds 1, 2 and methyl 3-hydroxybutanedioic ester (3) could inhibit the production of TNF- by 22.73%, 33.14% and 37.19% at 5 g/mL (P < 0.05) compared with the control. In addition, compound 2 was found to be active on the release of IL-6 in RAW264.7 macrophage cells, with an inhibitory rate of 39.79% (P < 0.05). The anti-inflammatory effect of compound 3 is disclosed for the first time in this study. Avian influenza is usually accompanied by virus invasion followed by the occurrence of oxidative stress and serious inflammation, so the multiple effects of the isolates may play a cocktail-like role in the treatment of avian influenza, and C. speciosa components, especially quercetin, might be a potent source for anti-viral and anti-inflammatory agents.
The system KSCN–H2O2–CuSO4–NaOH, also known as the Orban–Epstein oscillatory reaction, is exposed to external perturbations by several phenolic compounds: catechol, resorcinol, hydroquinone, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,6-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid, caffeic acid, and ferulic acid. As a result of the performed perturbation in most examined cases, oscillations have been inhibited for some characteristic time, and resumed afterwards. The evaluated inhibition time is typical for each substance and strongly dependent on its concentration. The chemical mechanism of the interaction between the Orban–Epstein system and phenolic compounds is briefly discussed. Numerical simulations are performed using the original Orban–Epstein model with 30 reactions, extended by three reactions describing the interaction with inhibitory substances. The rate constants of three added reactions are adjusted to fit experimental inhibition times, and compared among used compounds. The observed effects are discussed further in relation with the bond dissociation enthalpy theory. Unlike other tested compounds, 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid remains off from predicted order of activity.
The Strecker degradation of phenylalanine has been studied in a phenolic compound/phenylalanine wine model system. Six phenolic compounds (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, gallic acid, caffeic acid, ferulic acid, catechin, and epicatechin) were compared in the formation of phenylacetaldehyde when in the presence of glucose or methylglyoxal (MG). The addition of glucose reduced the formation of Strecker aldehyde, independently of the phenolic compound. The addition of MG, on the other hand, increased phenylacetaldehyde formation for hydroxybenzoic acids and decreased phenylacetaldehyde formation for flavan-3-ols, confirming their capacity to trap the dicarbonyl compound. As a target phenolic compound, catechin was chosen to perform kinetic studies to further understand the reaction intermediates involved in the mechanism of phenylacetaldehyde formation, in particular, catechin o-quinone and catechin–MG adduct. The addition of glucose and MG increased the consumption of catechin, while a reduction in the respecti...
Derivatives of benzoic acid, glyoxylic acid benzhydrazone, oxanilic acid and N-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene were investigated as catecholic iron chelators under iron-depleted conditions. Some of the compounds showed strong positive reactions in the universal chemical siderophore assay (CAS): 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, glyoxylic acid 2,3-dihydroxybenzhydrazone, N-3,4-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene. In particular these compounds also enabled removal of iron from iron-saturated transferrin. Using various siderophore indicator strains (enterobacteriacecae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aeromonas hydrophila mutants) in bioassays the following growth promotion could be detected: vicinal substituents (e.g. 2,3- or 3,4-) were essential, the carboxyamido group seen in benzoic acids and glyoxylic acid benzhydrazones contributed to a positive reaction as well as the azomethin group (in N-3,4-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene). 2,3-Dihydroxybenzoic acid and the 2,3-diacetoxy substitute preferably promoted growth of enterobacteriaceae mutants. In contrast, the 3,4- positioned compounds preferably promoted growth of P. aeruginosa mutants and A. hydrophila SB 22. Glyoxylic acid di(methoxycarbonyloxy)-benzhydrazones (2,3- and 3,4- positioned) including the 2,3-dihydroxy compound preferably enabled growth of the non-fermenters. N-3,4-dihydroxybenzylidene-2,4,6-trimethylaminobenzene supplied all mutants of Salmonella, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella, Morganella, P. aeruginosa and A. hydrophila with iron. Transport of glyoxylic acid 2,3-dihydroxybenzhydrazone depended on tonB, and required the involvement of the iron-regulated outer membrane proteins (IROMPs) FepA, Cir and Fiu.
Abstract Oxidation potentials of resorcinol, 4-chlororesorcinol, 4,6-dichlororesorcinol, catechol, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene were measured on particulate TiO 2 (Degussa P-25) thin films, immobilized on optically transparent SnO 2 conducting glass electrodes, by cyclic voltammetry in 0.5M KCl aqueous electrolyte solutions. The effect of adsorption on oxidation potentials was examined with the compounds adsorbed on the TiO 2 particle surface. Scan rate dependencies of oxidation peak currents indicate that adsorbed species are consistently characterized by less positive oxidation potentials compared to those attributed to solution free species; the difference ranges from about 0.2 to 0.8 V. Results show that depending on the nature of the working electrode, associating a single oxidation potential to such compounds does not adequately describe their electrochemical behavior. Such observations have relevance in heterogeneous photocatalysis in that predictions of whether a substance will be photooxidized or photoreduced cannot be based on Fermi levels (redox potentials) of the redox couples in homogeneous solutions.
Vanillic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzoic acid) supported the anaerobic (nitrate respiration) but not the aerobic growth of Pseudomonas sp. strain PN-1. Cells grown anaerobically on vanillate oxidized vanillate, p-hydroxybenzoate, and protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) with O(2) or nitrate. Veratric acid (3,4-dimethoxybenzoic acid) but not isovanillic acid (3-hydroxy-4-methoxybenzoic acid) induced cells for the oxic and anoxic utilization of vanillate, and protocatechuate was detected as an intermediate of vanillate breakdown under either condition. Aerobic catabolism of protocatechuate proceeded via 4,5-meta cleavage, whereas anaerobically it was probably dehydroxylated to benzoic acid. Formaldehyde was identified as a product of aerobic demethylation, indicating a monooxygenase mechanism, but was not detected during anaerobic demethylation. The aerobic and anaerobic systems had similar but not identical substrate specificities. Both utilized m-anisic acid (3-methoxybenzoic acid) and veratrate but not o- or p-anisate and isovanillate. Syringic acid (4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid), 3-O-methylgallic acid (3-methoxy-4,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid), and 3,5-dimethoxybenzoic acid were attacked under either condition, and formaldehyde was liberated from these substrates in the presence of O(2). The anaerobic demethylating system but not the aerobic enzyme was also active upon guaiacol (2-methoxyphenol), ferulic acid (3-[4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl]-2-propenoic acid), 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (3-[3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl]-2-propenoic acid), and 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoic acid. The broad specificity of the anaerobic demethylation system suggests that it probably is significant in the degradation of lignoaromatic molecules in anaerobic environments.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; PCA) is a phenolic acid present in plants as a secondary metabolite and is also produced in the human organism as a metabolite from the degradation of polyphenols by the intestinal microbiota, particularly of flavonoids. However, PCA, like most polyphenols, is biotransformed in the human body to different conjugates as sulfates, which are found circulating in blood and could be involved in the bioactivity of the original compound. This paper describes a simple process for the preparation of PCA monosulfates with satisfactory yields. Two compounds were obtained that were identified as PCA-3-sulfate and PCA-4-sulfate by mass spectrometry and 1H and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance using one- and two-dimensional techniques (heteronuclear single-quantum coherence and heteronuclear multiple-bond correlation). Differential MS fragmentation behavior and UV spectra were observed for each compound, which could be used for their identification in samples of unknown composition. The described procedure can be used for the preparation of these polyphenol metabolites in view of their use in in vivo and in vitro studies, as well as standards for their analysis in biological fluids, to contribute to the elucidation of biological effects of dietary polyphenols.
We examined the antioxidant activity of the following natural phenolic compounds present in food: 3-OH-benzoic acid (3-OH-BA); 4-OH-benzoic acid (4-OH-BA); 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-diOH-BA); 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-diOH-BA or protocatechuic acid); ferulic acid; caffeic acid; and 2-coumaric, 3-coumaric and 4-coumaric acids. We measured the inhibitory effect of these compounds on iron-dependent oxidative DNA damage in vitro [incubating herring sperm DNA with Fe(III)/GSH] or using cumene hydroperoxide (CumOOH) as a free-radical generating system; we also studied the interaction of these phenols with Fe(II) or Fe(III) spectrophotometrically. Among the tested compounds, 2,3-diOH-BA, 3,4-diOH-BA and caffeic acid interacted with Fe(II) and showed a potent inhibitory effect on iron-induced oxidative DNA damage. CumOOH-induced DNA oxidation was not modified by these compounds. On the contrary, 2-coumaric, 3-coumaric and 4-coumaric acids did not interact with iron but protected against oxidative DNA damage induced by Fe(III)/GSH and by CumOOH, indicating a direct free-radical scavenging activity of these compounds in both systems. The IC(50)+/-S.E.M. of the three coumaric acids against CumOOH-induced DNA oxidation was 44.2+/-2.0, 54.7+/-2.0 and 33.1+/-1.0 microM, respectively. On the contrary, 3-OH-BA and 4-OH-BA did not have scavenging activity and 3-OH-BA actually enhanced oxidative DNA damage. In conclusion, some natural phenolic acids, commonly present in food, have interesting protective activity against DNA oxidation in vitro and deserve further consideration as effective antioxidants in vivo.
The ethyl acetate (EtOAc) layer of the hot water extracts of Camellia japonica flowers was found to have higher 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity than the other solvent layers. Nine phenolic compounds were isolated and purified from the EtOAc layer by Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography and octadecyl silane-high performance liquid chromatography using a guided DPPH radical-scavenging assay. The isolated compounds were identified as 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (1), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (3), 2,3-digalloyl-O-α-d-glucopyranoside (4), 2,3-digalloyl-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (5), quercetin 3-O-β-d-galactopyranoside (6), quercetin 3-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (7), kaempferol 3-O-β-d-galactopyranoside (8), and kaempferol 3-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (9), based on mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance. Four compounds (6–9) had been previously identified in the leaves of this plant, but other compounds (1–5) were newly isolated from this plant. Their DPPH radical-scavenging activities based on the 50% scavenging concentration decreased in the following order: 4 = 5 (4.7 μM) > 1 (9.8 μM) > 6 = 7 (8.2 μM) > α-tocopherol (24.7 M) > ascorbic acid (25.1 μM) > 2 (35.6 M) > 3 = 8 = 9 (> 250 μM). Quercetin glycosides (6, 7), gallic acid (1) and its glucosides (4, 5) showed higher DPPH radical-scavenging activities than other compounds. These results indicate that the antioxidant effect of C. japonica flowers may be attributable to quercetin glycosides and gallic acid derivatives. These isolated compounds will be useful in basic studies of plant physiology, food manufacturing, and biological function of C. japonica flowers.
Abstract: Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; PCA) is a phenolic acid present in plants as a secondary metabolite and is also produced in the human organism as a metabolite from the degradation of polyphenols by the intestinal microbiota, particularly of flavonoids. However, PCA, like most polyphenols, is biotransformed in the human body to different conjugates as sulfates, which are found circulating in blood and could be involved in the bioactivity of the original compound. This paper describes a simple process for the preparation of PCA monosulfates with satisfactory yields. Two compounds were obtained that were identified as PCA-3-sulfate and PCA-4-sulfate by mass spectrometry and 1 H and 13 C nuclear magnetic resonance using one-and two-dimensional techniques (heteronuclear single-quantum coherence and heteronuclear multiple-bond correlation). Differential MS fragmentation behavior and UV spectra were observed for each compound, which could be used for their identification in samples of unknown composition. The described procedure can be used for the preparation of these polyphenol metabolites in view of their use in in vivo and in vitro studies, as well as standards for their analysis in biological fluids, to contribute to the elucidation of biological effects of dietary polyphenols.
Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; PCA) is a phenolic acid present in plants as a secondary metabolite produced through the shikimic acid pathway [11] . As such, it is commonly found in fruits, vegetables, grains and spices, such as grapes, berries, onions, brown rice, rosemary, and cinnamon, among others [12] . PCA is also produced in the human organism as a metabolite from the degradation of polyphenols by the intestinal microbiota, particularly of flavonoids like anthocyanins, flavonols or procyanidins [13] . It may be absorbed through the intestinal epithelium and reach systemic circulation. After uptake, PCA undergoes structural modifications through conjugation processes, mostly occurring in the liver, giving rise to sulfated and glucuronidated forms that can be distributed to the tissues, recycled back to the intestine, or excreted in urine [14, 15] . PCA conjugates have been detected in relevant concentrations in plasma, urine, and feces after consumption of polyphenol-rich diets [7] [8] [9] [10] 16] . Concentrations of phase II conjugates (sulfates + glucuronides) of PCA up to 5,540 ± 490 nM were determined in urine by Czank et al. [7] following consumption of 500 mg of 13 C-labelled cyanidin-3,O-glucoside by healthy humans, reaching maximum level 24 h after intake.
Protocatechuic acid (PCA, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) is a phenolic compound found in many food plants such as Olea europaea (olives), Hibiscus sabdariffa (roselle), Eucommia ulmoides (du-zhong), Citrus microcarpa Bunge (calamondin), and Vitis vinifera (white wine grapes) [1] [2] [3] . PCA content varies considerably depending on the type of food.
ABSTRACT The influence of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid), a naturally occurring benzoic acid derivative, on tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.) cell and tissue cultures was examined. The response to 0.1, 10 and 1000 µM 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was tested with regards to cell proliferation in leaf explants, callus growth and shoot formation. Effects on shoot and root growth in micropropagated plants were also analysed. The highest concentration of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid strongly inhibited the proliferation of leaf tissues, callus growth, shoot regeneration and root growth in micropropagated plants. On the contrary, the lowest concentration (0.1 µM) showed auxin-like activity by stimulating cell dedifferentiation, callus induction and rooting of leaf tissues. The presence of auxins and cytokinins in the media contrasted 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid inhibition of callus growth at all tested concentrations.
Benzoic acid-derived phenolics (p-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, syringic acid, and gallic acid) and the polyphenols epicatechin and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) were evaluated for their efficiency in regenerating alpha-tocopherol from alpha-tocopheroxyl radical in comparison with ascorbyl palmitate, which is known to regenerate alpha-tocopherol. Ethanolic solutions of phenolic compounds were added to a homogeneous hexane medium containing alpha-tocopheroxyl radical generated by reaction of alpha-tocopherol in molar excess with 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl radical, and the alpha-tocopheroxyl radical was monitored by electron spin resonance spectroscopy. p-Hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, and syringic acid (400 microM) did not exhibit a significant effect on alpha-tocopheroxyl radical concentration (0.6-0.7 microM). In contrast, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and gallic acid were able to reduce the concentration of alpha-tocopheroxyl radical by 16 and 64%, respectively. Epicatechin showed a reduction of alpha-tocopheroxyl radical similar to gallic acid, and EGCG and ascorbyl palmitate were the most effective, reducing alpha-tocopheroxyl radical completely at a much lower phenolic concentration (66.7 microM). The moles of alpha-tocopheroxyl radical reduced per mole of ascorbyl palmitate (0.93), EGCG (0.066), gallic acid (4.3 x 10(-4)), and epicatechin (4.5 x 10(-4)) were determined, and the logarithm of these stoichoimetric ratios showed a negative linear relationship with the bond dissociation enthalpies of the O-H bond of the phenolics. The relative capacity to reduce alpha-tocopheroxyl radical was found to be ascorbyl palmitate (2142) > EGCG (151) > gallic acid (1) approximately epicatechin (1).
Abstract The OH-radical induced degradation of hydroxybenzoic acids (HBA), hydroxycinnamic acids (HCiA) and methoxylated derivatives, as well as of chlorogenic acid and rosmarinic acid was studied by gamma radiolysis in aerated aqueous solutions. Primary aromatic products resulting from an OH-radical attachment to the ring (hydroxylation), to the position occupied by the methoxyl group (replacement –OCH 3 by −OH) as well as to the propenoic acid side chain of the cinnamic acids (benzaldehyde formations) were analysed by HPLC–UV and LC–ESI–MS. A comparison of the extent of these processes is given for 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, isovanillic acid, syringic acid, cinnamic acid, 4-hydroxycinnamic acid, caffeic acid, ferulic acid, isoferulic acid, chlorogenic acid, and rosmarinic acid. For all cinnamic acids and derivatives benzaldehydes were significant oxidation products. With the release of caffeic acid from chlorogenic acid the cleavage of a phenolic glycoside could be demonstrated. Reaction mechanisms are discussed.
Seven compounds were extracted and purified from the roots of Michelia compressa var. lanyuensis. These compounds are liriodenine, (-)-N-acetylanonaine, pressalanine A, p-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, (-)-bornesitol and β-sitostenone. These compounds were screened for anti-proliferation and anti-tyrosinase activities in B16F10 cells. Liriodenine, pressalanine A, (-)-bornesitol and β-sitostenone displayed cytotoxicity at high concentration (100 μM), but liriodenine (5 μM), (-)-N-acetylanonaine (10 μM), and β-sitostenone (5 μM) inhibit tyrosinase activity and reduce the melanin content in B16F10 cells without cytotoxicity, suggesting that liriodenine and β-sitostenone could be safe and potentially used in cosmetic skin whitening.
MANY ORGANIC acids accumulate in renal failure. 1 The role of phenolic acids in the pathogenesis of uremia has been reviewed by Schreiner and Maher 2 and others. 3-10 Blood phenols are primarily derived from the action of intestinal bacteria on protein derivatives containing aromatic amino acids. They are absorbed from the gut, conjugated in the liver, and excreted principally by the kidneys. Normally total plasma phenols including various amino acids, phenols, and aromatic hydroxy acids do not exceed 0.1 mg/100 ml. Marked elevations of free and conjugated phenols have been detected in uremia and reported to correlate with uremic symptoms, especially those of central nervous system (CNS) depression. 3-6 The present study was undertaken to evaluate in vivo the potential contribution of the phenolic compound, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHBA) (protocatechuic acid) to the pathogenesis of uremia. This compound was selected because it is excreted in considerable amounts (46
Multifunctional molecules are capable of assembling via different supramolecular synthons, or hydrogen bond motifs, between the same or different functional groups, leading to the possibility of polymorphism. We have employed sublimation and melt crystallization to generate two new crystalline polymorphs of 3,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), and a second form for 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid each. Since hydroxybenzoic acids tend to give solvate/hydrate crystal structures by solution crystallization, solvent-free methods are necessary to obtain single crystals of unsolvated forms. In addition to guest-free polymorphs, a new hydrate polymorph of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid was crystallized from cold water. Polymorphs of dihydroxybenzoic acids differ in the number of symmetry-independent molecules (Z′), the nature of the hydrogen bond synthon, the molecular packing, and the unit cell parameters. Structural and thermal characterization of polymorphic phases shows that the commercial ma...
In this work, nitrogen-doped sheetlike carbon materials have been synthesized by a template carbonization method using 1,5-diphenylcarbazide and MgCl2·6H2O as carbon source and template, respectively. The method presents a carbon sample with amorphous characteristics as well as high surface area and large pore volume. More importantly, introducing the redox additives 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (HBA), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA), and 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid (THBA) with functional hydroxyl groups into 1 mol L–1 H2SO4 has largely improved the capacitances as well as the energy density. As expected, the supercapacitor with the redox additive HBA exhibits higher capacitances, with an increase of 1.57 times compared with the conventional H2SO4 electrolyte. Besides, compared with the supercapacitor without any redox additive, the redox additive DHBA produces a large improvement of capacitances, increasing by 3.18 times. In addition, the redox reactions of HBA and DHBA are reversible, while that of THBA is i...
Abstract: Seven compounds were extracted and purified from the roots of Michelia compressa var. lanyuensis. These compounds are liriodenine, (−)-N-acetylanonaine, pressalanine A, p-dihydroxybenzaldehyde, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, (−)-bornesitol and β-sitostenone. These compounds were screened for anti-proliferation and anti-tyrosinase activities in B16F10 cells. Liriodenine, pressalanine A, (−)-bornesitol and β-sitostenone displayed cytotoxicity at high concentration (100 μM), but liriodenine (5 μM), (−)-N-acetylanonaine (10 μM), and β-sitostenone (5 μM) inhibit tyrosinase activity and reduce the melanin content in B16F10 cells without cytotoxicity, suggesting that liriodenine and β-sitostenone could be safe and potentially used in cosmetic skin whitening.
As part of our ongoing research program to isolate and identify bioactive compounds from natural sources, in this work the bioactive constituents of the roots of Michelia compressa var. lanyuensis. were further investigated by assaying their anticancer effects and tyrosinase and cellular proliferation inhibition, We isolated seven bioactive compounds, namely liriodenine (1), (−)-N-acetylanonaine (2), pressalanine A (3), p-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (4), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5), (−)-bornesitol (6) and β-sitostenone (7). Pressalanine A (3), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (5) and (−)-bornesitol (6) were isolated for the first time from this plant. The structures of these seven compounds are summarized in Figure 1 . 
With 4-methylcatechol as raw material,through oxidation and esterification reactions,the target compound ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate was synthesized and characterized by IR,1H NMR and 13C NMR.In the oxidation reaction the influence of dosage of catalyst TBAB and potassium permanganate,reaction time and reaction temperature on the yield of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were investigated with experiments.In the esterification reaction,the influence of dosage of catalyst,TsOH and ethanol,reaction time and reaction temperature on the yield of ethyl 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate were investigated.Under the optimal conditions,the yield of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate was 90.5%.The experiment showed that the synthesis method enhanced yield.It decreased the cost of production and possessed good prospect for the industrial application.
In Chlamydia pneumoniae AR39,it was shaved that a conserved protein NP__444977 had similar effect to 4-hydroxybenzoate decarboxylases through BLAST analysis.Recombinant protein was expressed in E.coli strain BL21(DE3) and purified to detect whether the protein had the 4-hydroxybenzoate decarboxylase activity.The purified protein could decompose 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to phenol,which confirmed that the protein had the 4-hydroxybenzoate decarboxylase activity.The decomposition of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid was promoted by Mg~(2+),Fe~(2+),Ca~(2+),but Cu~(2+) and Zn~(2+) had no promotion.The optimal pH and temperature was 7.5 and 30 ℃ respectively.So under the optimal pH and temperature,K_m of protein CpHBDC on the decarboxylation was 40.1 mmol/L.The protein had the specificity on substrate recognition,which could decompose 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid to catechol but not 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid to resorcin.The ligand at C3 site of benzene ring had no effect on enzyme activity.
Abstract In this study, thin films of MOF-199 were prepared using a Layer-by-Layer deposition approach and applied as sensitizing materials in TiO 2 -based solar cells. Our results indicate that by introducing 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid at the interface of TiO 2 -MOF via a simple surface modification step, TiO 2 surface roughness is reduced and texture quality of MOF-199 polycrystalline film enhances along 〈111〉 crystallographic direction while the overall conversion efficiency of the cell increases as well. The improvement in J sc could be a consequence of enhanced crystallinity, reduced surface roughness and enhanced light-harvesting properties of surface-modified photoanode. Dark I–V characteristics of the cells also indicate that the interfacial charge recombination at TiO 2 -MOF interface is inhibited upon introducing DHBA thus, V oc is improved.
Diphenolic compounds in cockroach hemolymph and cuticle were extracted with 1.2 N HCI, partially purified by alumina adsorption, and analyzed by liquid chromatography. Dopamine (DA) is the major catecholamine in hemolymph of Periplaneta americana, Blatta orientalis, Blattella germanica, Gromphadorhina portentosa, and Blaberus craniifer at adult ecdysis, while N-acetyldopamine (NADA) predominates in hemolymph of Leucophaea maderae. In P. americana, NADA is the second most abundant catecholamine, while N-β-alanyldopamine (NBAD), norepinephrine (NE), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethanol, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid occur in lesser quantities. Catecholamines occur mainly as acid labile conjugates in hemolymph. Dopamine, conjugated primarily as the 3-sulfate ester, increases in hemolymph from 0.1 to 0.8 mM during the last instar. Concentrations decrease by 75% in pharate adults, partially because of an increase in hemolymph volume. A second smaller peak of DA sulfate occurs after ecdysis followed by a rapid disappearance as the cuticle tans. A conjugate of catechol (o-dihydroxybenzene) is also present in relatively high concentrations at all ages examined. In cuticle, N-β-alanylnorepinephrine accumulates during the early period of adult tanning, while NBAD, NADA, N-acetylnorepinephrine, and DA increase more slowly. The N-β-alanyl and N-acetyl derivatives of DA and NE occure in relatively high concentrations in tanned cutical of P. americana and probably play an important role in the stablization process.
Abstract This paper describes an analytical procedure based on GC-MS to identify in textiles the most common flavonoid yellow dyes used in Europe since ancient times, extracted from weld, young fustic, dyer's broom, sawwort and the berries of some species of Rhamnus. Later on, old fustic and quercitron bark were introduced as sources of yellow colours. The method is based on the solvent extraction of flavonoids from raw plant materials (weld, dyer's broom and old fustic), aged and not aged alum-mordanted wool dyed specimens; subsequently, flavonoids are derivatised with N,O-bis(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide and analysed by GC-MS. The method easily allows the identification of a dyestuff by the detection of the molecular markers apigenin, luteolin, genistein, morin, maclurin, together with 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 2,4,6- trihydroxybenzoic acid, which survive in aged textiles. Two photo-oxidative degradation pathways for colour fading, one involving the mordant metallic ion and the other the light as a catalyst, are suggested.
A single reagent, containing cholesterol oxidase, cholesterol esterase, peroxidase, 4-hydroxybenzoate, and 4-aminophenazone, is used in determining serum cholesterol. Analysis time is 15 min, and the standard curve is linear to 6.0 g/liter. Analytical recovery of cholesterol was 100.1 +/- 0.4%. Within-run precision (CV) was less than or equal to 1.4 1.4%, between-run less than or equal to 4.8%. Comparison with results by a Liebermann Burchard method [Clin. Chim. Acta 5, 637 (1960)] gave a linear regression of y = 1.08x--0.05, with a correlation coefficient (r) of 0.985. Comparison with the Roeschlau enzymic method [J. Clin. Chem. Clin. Biochem, 12, 226 (1974)] gave y = 1.02x + 0.01 (r = 0.958). Comparison with the enzymic method of Allain et al. [Clin. Chem. 20, 470 (1974)] gave y = 1.01x--0.00 (r = 0.995). The following substances do not interfere up to the indicated concentrations (mg/liter): hemoglobin (5000), bilirubin (100), reduced glutathione (150), l-cysteine (400), urea (3000), creatinine (200), uric acid (200), d-glucose (10000), L-ascorbic acid (50), acetylsalicylic acid (500), L-DOPA (10), ergothioneine (1000), 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid (20), and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (10). Stored in an amber-colored bottle, the working reagent is stable for three months at 2--8 degrees C and for three weeks at 25 degrees C.
Abstract Isoniazid is an important component used in “triple therapy” to combat tuberculosis. It has reduced Tabletting formulations stability. Anti-oxidants are obligatory to counter oxidative stress, pulmonary inflammation, and free radical burst from macrophages caused in tuberculosis and other diseases. In the present study a hydrate cocrystal of Isoniazid with anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) in 1:1 is reported. This Cocrystal may have improved tabletting stability and anti-oxidant properties. Cocrystal structure analysis confirmed the existence of pyridine-carboxylic acid synthon in the Cocrystal. Other synthons of different graph sets involving N H···O and O H···N bonds are formed between hydrazide group of isoniazid and coformer. Solubility studies revealed that cocrystal is less soluble as compared to isoniazid in buffer at pH 7.4 at 22 °C while stability studies at 80 °C for 24 h period disclosed the fact that cocrystal has higher stability than that of isoniazid.
Background: Natural products are becoming important alternative medicines for diabetes treatment. Many Bauhinia plants in Thailand have been used in Thai traditional medicines for diabetic patients. Bauhinia plants have been reported on anti-alpha-glucosidase activity. However, Bauhinia pottsii var. pottsii G. Don which is a local plant in Southern Thailand has not been reported on antidiabetic activity and phytochemistry. Hence, it was selected for further study. Objectives: Isolation of chemical constituents from B. pottsii var. pottsii and determination of their biological activity on alpha-glucosidase inhibition. Materials and Methods: Chromatographic techniques, enzymatic assay, and molecular docking were done in this study. Results: A new stilbene derivative, 1,3-benzenediol-5-(-2-phenylethyl)-6-(2',3'-butanediol)-3', methyl (1) and five known compounds such as 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2), quercetin (3), 3-O-methylquercetin (4), a mixture of beta-sitosterol and stigmasterol (5), and 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (6) were isolated from B. pottsii var. pottsii. The plant extracts and isolated compounds were determined for anti-alpha-glucosidase activity. The results showed that the compounds 2, 3, and 4 were inhibited alpha-glucosidase enzyme activity with inhibition concentration at 50% (IC50) values of 3.637 mM, 0.486 mM, and 0.292 mM, respectively. While positive control, acarbose exhibited IC50value as 0.166 mM. The mechanism of action was proved using computer molecular docking. Compound 2 was predicted as mixed-type inhibitor, whereas compounds 3 and 4 were predicted as competitive inhibitors. Conclusion: This study will be the first report of phytochemical and biological study from B. pottsii var. pottsii including the first report of new compound.
Objective To study the chemical constituents from the root of Rhaponticum carthamoides(Willd.)Iljin.Methods The compounds were isolated by chromatography on silica gel column,Sephadex LH-20 column,ODS column and recrystallizing method,and identified on the basis of physico-chemical constants and spectral analysis.Results Nine compounds were isolated and elucidated as cinnamic acid(1),4-hydroxybenzoic acid(2),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3),3-hydroxy-4-methoxylbenzoic acid(4),2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(5),benzyl-O-β-D-glucopyran-oside(6),syringin(7),β-sitosterol(8),daucosterol(9).Conclusions Compounds 1,4,5,6 are obtained from this genus for the first time,and compound 7 is isolated from this herb firstly.
Various flavoenzymes can form charge-transfer (CT) complexes with their substrates or analogs. The CT bands are red-shifted from the flavin absorption bands. In the present study, under the resonance Raman condition when 647.1 nm excitation was used, resonance Raman spectra were obtained for three CT complexes formed by 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (protocatechuic acid, PCA) with the flavoenzymes old yellow enzyme I (OYE I), 12-oxophytodienoate 10,11-reductase (LeOPR I) and dihydroorotate dehydrogenase A (DHOD A). Many flavin ring modes were intensity-enhanced under these conditions, although to varying degrees. However, the Raman intensity enhancements of the PCA modes were highly selective. Using phenolate binding to OYE I as a model system, and deuterium substitution in PCA, the enhanced modes were identified as benzene in-plane ring modes containing contributions from C–H bending. The intensity enhancement for these modes is up to several thousand-fold. The mechanism for the selective intensity enhancement is not understood. Although the CT absorption bands for PCA binding to OYE I, DHOD A and LeOPR I are very similar, the positions of the Raman modes of bound PCA and their response to deuterium substitution are distinct. This demonstrates that the Raman data can detect differences in the chemistry of the CT binding sites that are not apparent in the absorption spectral data. Copyright © 2001 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Experiments on cell cultures addressed the antiviral properties of 2-anilino-4,6-di-tert-butylphenol and N-(3,5-di-tert-2-hydroxyphenyl)acetamide, both of which are o-aminophenol derivatives, and 3,4-dihydroxy-benzoic acid against herpes simplex virus and in experimental cutaneous herpes in white mice. Assessment of the data obtained here indicates that all three study compounds were significantly less active than acyclovir in cell cultures. In experiments on laboratory animals, the efficacy of ointment containing N-(3,5-di-tert-2-hydroxyphenyl) acetamide was comparable with that of acyclovir ointment, while ointments containing 2-anilino-4,6-di-tert-butylphenol and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid were less active.
In the literature, there are few assays for the TAP measurements (2,4). Usually, they are based on the generation of free radicals and measurements of their competition reaction between sample and sensing compound (5,6). Under such conditions, the TAP measurement is based on the decrease (because of sample competition) of concentration of its product reaction with the generated radicals. Recently, it was shown that high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) can be used for TAP measurements (7, 8) . In this case, compounds used as sensors are the same as those applied for the measurements of hydroxyl radicals. The hydroxyl radicals are generated in the Fenton-like reaction, and they are detected using p-hydroxybenxoic acid (8). The product (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) of its reaction with the hydroxyl radical has been subsequently analyzed using reversedphase HPLC with the electrochemical (amperometric) detection. However, it should be noted that the use of electrochemical detector is inconvenient because of poisoning and instability of the electrodes. Therefore, some alternative detection methods involving different sensing compounds were developed. Particularly, it was shown that terephthalic (TPA) acid can be used as a spin trap of hydroxyl radicals (9,10). The product of its reaction with hydroxyl radicals, namely hydroxyterephthalic acid (HTPA), can be easily separated on the reversed-phase column and monitored fluorometrically. With such an analytical approach, the samples are monitored using excitation and emission wavelengths equal 312 nm and 428 nm, respectively. The aim of this paper is to optimize previously described protocol for the TAP estimation of selected low-molecular mass compounds commonly present in the food samples, particularly tryptamine and pyrogallol as well as chlorogenic, ascorbic, gallic, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic, and 2,6-dimethoxybenzoic acids (11-13).
In the literature, there are few assays for the TAP measurements (2, 4) . Usually, they are based on the generation of free radicals and measurements of their competition reaction between sample and sensing compound (5, 6) . Under such conditions, the TAP measurement is based on the decrease (because of sample competition) of concentration of its product reaction with the generated radicals. Recently, it was shown that high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) can be used for TAP measurements (7, 8) . In this case, compounds used as sensors are the same as those applied for the measurements of hydroxyl radicals. The hydroxyl radicals are generated in the Fenton-like reaction, and they are detected using p-hydroxybenxoic acid (8) . The product (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) of its reaction with the hydroxyl radical has been subsequently analyzed using reversedphase HPLC with the electrochemical (amperometric) detection. However, it should be noted that the use of electrochemical detector is inconvenient because of poisoning and instability of the electrodes. Therefore, some alternative detection methods involving different sensing compounds were developed. Particularly, it was shown that terephthalic (TPA) acid can be used as a spin trap of hydroxyl radicals (9, 10) . The product of its reaction with hydroxyl radicals, namely hydroxyterephthalic acid (HTPA), can be easily separated on the reversed-phase column and monitored fluorometrically. With such an analytical approach, the samples are monitored using excitation and emission wavelengths equal 312 nm and 428 nm, respectively. The aim of this paper is to optimize previously described protocol for the TAP estimation of selected low-molecular mass compounds commonly present in the food samples, particularly tryptamine and pyrogallol as well as chlorogenic, ascorbic, gallic, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic, and 2,6-dimethoxybenzoic acids (11) (12) (13) .
The influence of fermentation on antioxidant activity, total phenol, total flavonoid and phenolic compounds of sea fennel and also volatile compounds of sea fennel essential oil was investigated and compared with fresh samples. Antioxidant activity, total fenolic and flavonoid contents decresed from 89.79 to 63.13%; from 259.58 to 77.92 mg/100 g; from 2114.67 to 390.50 mg/100 g, respectively. Twenty-six and thirty-three components of sea fennel oils were identified in raw and fermented sea fennel, accounting to about 99.99% and 99.44% of the total oil, respectively. The raw and fermented sea fennel leaves contained 22.31 and 1.32% sabinene, 12.08% and 7.45% limonene, 10.30% and 11.61% β-phellandrene, 8.59% and 9.17% (Z)-β-ocimene, 7.08% and 3.55% α-pinene, 28.36% and 42.05% γ-terpinene, 2.57% and 8.64% terpinene-4-ol, respectively. Dominant phenolic compounds were (+)-catechin, gallic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and p -coumaric acid. Generally, all of the phenolic compounds reduced the effect of microorganisms during,. However, essential oil contents of sea fennel were not effected from fermentation process.
Abstract Graphene-magnetite composite (G-Fe 3 O 4 ) was successfully synthesized and applied as adsorbent for magnetic solid phase extraction (MSPE) of two phenolic acids namely 4-hydroxybenzoic acid (4-HB) and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB) from stingless bee honey prior to analysis using high performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet–visible detection (HPLC-UV/Vis). Several MSPE parameters affecting extraction of these two acids were optimized. Optimum MSPE conditions were 50 mg of G-Fe 3 O 4 adsorbent, 5 min extraction time at 1600 rpm, 30 mL sample volume, sample solution pH 0.5, 200 µL methanol as desorption solvent (5 min sonication assisted) and 5% w/v NaCl. The LODs (3 S/N) calculated for 4-HB and 3,4-DHB were 0.08 and 0.14 µg/g, respectively. Good relative recoveries (72.6–110.6%) and reproducibility values (RSD n = 9) were obtained. The developed G-Fe 3 O 4 MSPE method offered is simple, easy, environmental friendly and efficient for extraction of the two phenolic acids from stingless bee honey samples.
3,4-Dihydroxybenzoate decarboxylase in Enterobacter cloacae P241 was induced by adding 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid or 4-acetamidobenzoic acid to the culture medium. After stabilizing the enzyme activity by adding 5 mM dithiothreitol and 20 mM Na2S2O3 to a cell-free extract, catechol at 50 mM was carboxylated in the presence of 3 M KHCO3 to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid with a molar conversion ratio of 28% after 14 h at 30°C.
Abstract Eight mononuclear complexes of the formula [M(N-N)(DHB)] and two binuclear complexes of the formula [M 2 (BPY) 2 (THB)] {where M = Pd(II) or Pt(II), N-N = 2,2′-bipyridine (BPY), 2,2′-biquinoline (BIQ), 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline (DPP), 1,10-phenanthroline (PHEN); DHB = dianion of 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde and THB = tetraanion of 3,3′,4,4′-tetrahydroxy benzaldazine} were prepared and their electrochemical, spectral and photophysical properties were examined. These complexes were characterized by chemical analysis, IR and proton NMR spectroscopy. A detailed study on the absorption spectroscopy of these complexes was made. These complexes were found to show a low-energy solvatochromic ligand-to-ligand charge-transfer (LLCT) band. The electronic energies of these bands have been analyzed and compared with electrochemical data. Emission behaviour of the complexes of the series, [Pt(N-N)(DHB)], [Pt(N-N)(DHBA)] {where DHBA is the dianion of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid} and [Pt 2 (BPY) 2 (THB)] was also investigated. These platinum complexes were found to emit from a low-energy state at low temperature and a high-energy state at room temperature. Photophysics of these complexes is also discussed.
Rats were injected with 40 μCi (±)-[1-3H]noradrenaline and 10 μCi ±-[1-14C]noradrenaline. Three fractions with a decreased 3H:14C ratio were isolated from the urine by a combined alumina adsorption-ethyl acetate extraction procedure. Two of the fractions were identified as [14C]vanillic acid and 3,4-dihydroxy[14C]benzoic acid, respectively. Vanillic acid represented between 1.5 and 3.0% of the total [14C]activity excreted within 24 h and the contribution of dihydroxybenzoic acid was 0·2-0·5%. The third fraction with a decreased 3H: 14C ratio has not been identified and represented about 2% of the total [14C]activity excreted within 24 h. After monoamine oxidase blockade with 100 mg/kg of iproniazid, the excretion of vanillic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid and the unknown fraction was greatly diminished. The probability that these three substances represent those metabolites arising simultaneously with the formation of tritium water from (±)-[1-3H]noradrenaline is discussed.
Abstract Eight complexes of the formula [M(NN)(DHBA)] {where M = Pd II or Pt II , NN = 2,2′-bipyridine (BPY), 2,2′-biquinoline (BIQ), 4,7-diphenyl-1,10-phenanthroline (DPP), 1,10-phenanthroline (PHEN) and DHBA is the dianion of 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid} were prepared and characterized by chemical analysis, IR and 1 H NMR spectroscopy. These complexes were found to show a ligand-to-ligand charge-transfer (LLCT) band. The energies of these bands have been compared with the electrochemical data.
There is a growing need to discover and develop alternative therapies for the treatment of mastitis caused by Staphylococcus spp. and multidrug-resistant bacterial infections. This study examined the chemical composition and antimicrobial potential of two propolis extracts (EPA and EPB) against seventy-seven isolates of Staphylococcus spp. obtained from subclinical bovine mastitis; three clinical strains of MRSA and two from clinical strains of S. aureus ATCC, identified as S. aureus ATCC 6538 and S. aureus ATCC 25923. The total phenolic content was determined by the Folin-Ciocalteau method, the total flavonoid content by the Dowd method and the phenolic profile was quantified by HPLC-DAD. The MBC values of the extracts were evaluated by broth microdilution method. The amount of total phenolic and flavonoid compounds was higher in EPA than EPB. Both extracts revealed the presence of caffeic, coumaric, cinnamic, ferulic and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acids, with higher concentrations of coumaric and cinnamic acids. Staphylococcus spp. isolates were susceptible to EPA (90.9%), EPB (83.1%) and oxacillin (80.5%). The oxacillin susceptible isolates were also susceptible to EPA (70.1%) and EPB (80.6%), whereas those oxacillin-resistant strains were also susceptible to EPA (40.0%) and to EPB (26.7%). MBC ranged from 34.3 to 68.7?m/mL for EPA and from 68.7 to 137.5?g/mL for EPB. Both extracts inhibited significantly (100%) the clinical strains of MRSA, S. aureus ATCC 6538 and S. aureus ATCC 25923 at the concentration of 68.7?g/mL. It is concluded that both extracts of propolis, whose main constituents are coumaric and cinnamic acids, have high antimicrobial activity against the microorganisms studied, and EPA also against oxacillin-resistant strains. These findings reinforce its potential use for the treatment of bovine mastitis.
In order to explore the influence of the interacting group′s number and relative position of the template molecule on molecular imprinting effect,in the present study four molecularly imprinted polymers(MIPs) were prepared using a series of hydroxybenzoic acids with different numbers of OH groups and their positio-nal isomers such as 3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid(3,4,5-THBA),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3,4-DHBA),2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(2,4-DHBA) and 3-hydroxybenzoic acid(3-HBA) as model templates,respectively,acrylamide as functional monomer,ethyleneglycol dimethacrylate as cross-linker and acetonitrile(MeCN) as porogen by bulk non-covalent imprinting technique.The molecular recognition performances were characte-rized by high-performance liquid chromatography.The results showed that all of the imprinted polymers exhibited molecular imprinting effects for the corresponding templates and the imprinting factors were 5.51,5.55,2.60 and 2.03 for 3,4,5-THBA,3,4-DHBA,2,4-DHBA and 3-HBA,respectively,in the mobile phase of H2O/MeCN(volume ratio,1∶99).Furthermore,the comparison of molecular recognition ability was made among them and gentisic acid-,salicylic acid-,4-hydroxybenzoic acid-imprinted polymers,which were pre-viously prepared under the same conditions as the above four hydroxybenzoic acids-imprinted polymers except for the template molecules.By comparative study on all of the above mentioned hydroxybenzoic acid-imprinted polymers,the following conclusions are drawn:(1) the template with multi-functional groups facilitates the preparation of MIP with high imprinting efficiency;(2) it was found that the positions of COOH relative to OH on the benzene ring have marked influence on the imprinting effects of templates.Specifically,the imprinting efficiency is higher for the template with COOH and OH at para-position than that at meta-position,whereas the imprinting effect will decrease if COOH and OH are at ortho-position owing to their forming intramolecular hydrogen bond.In addition,a baseline separation of the mixture of 3,4,5-THBA and 2,4-DHBA was obtained on 3,4-DHBA-imprinted polymer,which is a close analogue of 3,4,5-THBA.This provides the potentiality for the selective separation and detection of bioactive 3,4,5-THBA.
Bacillus anthracis Sterne produced a catecholate siderophore named anthrachelin that was based on 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3,4-DHB, or protocatechuic acid), a catechol moiety previously unreported as a siderophore component. During iron restriction, both anthrachelin and free 3,4-DHB were excreted. Growth at 37 degrees C (as compared with 23 degrees C) decreased excretion of anthrachelin but not its precursor 3,4-DHB, suggesting that anthrachelin assembly is temperature regulated. A plasmidless strain also produced anthrachelin in an iron- and temperature-regulated fashion, indicating that anthrachelin genes are chromosomal. In addition to anthrachelin-mediated iron delivery, B. anthracis also used heme, hemoproteins, iron-transferrin, and certain heterologous siderophores (xenosiderophores) produced by other microorganisms as iron sources. Downregulation of anthrachelin production at the temperature of the mammalian host (which triggers toxin production in this pathogen) may focus the B. anthracis iron acquisition systems to exploit the iron sources prevailing in the infected host.
Eight phenolic compounds were isolated from the EtOAc-soluble acidic layer of methanol extracts of Asian pear (Pyrus pyrifolia Nakai cv. Chuhwangbae) fruit peels. These isolated compounds were identified to be arbutin (1), 4-(O-β-d-glucopyranosyl)-3-(3′-methyl-2′-butenyl)benzoic acid (2, malaxinic acid), 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid (3), trans-chlorogenic acid (4), cis-chlorogenic acid (5), isorhamnetin 3-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (6), 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid (7), and (-)-epicatechin (8) based on electronic spray ionization (ESI)-MS and NMR spectroscopic data. Of the isolated compounds, 2 and 5 were identified in pear for the first time.
A rapid and practical capillary electrophoresis (CE) method was developed for the determination of 2-methoxycinnamic acid, 4-hydroxyl-3-methoxycinnamic acid, vanillic acid, salicylic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid in tobacco samples. Five phenolic acids were Soxhlet extracted with NaOH solution following solid phase extraction (SPE) clean-up. The CE method was optimized with the running buffer of 25 mmol L−1 sodium borate (pH 9.3), and the applied separation voltage of +25 kV over a capillary of 75 μm i.d. × 375 μm o.d. × 48.5 cm (40 cm to the detector window), which gave a baseline separation of five phenolic acids within about 7 min. Under the detection at 205 nm, the method gave the limits of quantification (S/N = 10) at about 1.6–3.0 μg g−1 for five phenolic acids, whereas the overall recoveries were >80%. The proposed method has been successfully applied to measure five phenolic acids in ten actual tobacco samples, and their contents were obtained and evaluated.
Phenolic compounds have gained attention since they are bioactive compounds. Protocatechuic acid (3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid), an antioxidant phenolic acid, can reach tissues in amounts which can exert biological effects on health (Semaming et al., 2015) . It has been reported that protocatechuic acid shows antioxidant, antihyperglycemic and neuroprotective effects (Masella et al., 2012) . Because Protocatechuic acid can easily crosses the blood brain barrier, it gains attention in the inhibition of neurodegenerative progress based on existing data (Krzysztoforska et al., 2017) . Protocatechuic acid also possesses anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effects in different animal models (Lende et al., 2011) . More recently, Dhanshree et al., (2017) showed that the treatment with protocatechuic acid for 21 days increased the pain threshold in diabetic neuropathic pain model. Although the antinociceptive effect of protocatechuic acid was shown in a few studies (Lende et al., 2011) , the mechanisms of antinociceptive action have not been clarified yet. Revealing the mechanism of action of drugs is highly important to identify the effect profiles of drugs and rational drug use. Pain perception and control process from the periphery to the central nervous system are mediated through ascending and descending networks that include endogenous opioid-, monoamine-, and acetylcholine-mediated mechanisms via their own receptors (de Freitas et al., 2004; Kirkpatrick et al., 2015) . This study aimed to investigate the time-dependent central antinociceptive effects of protocatechuic acid at the per oral doses of 75, 150 and 300 mg/kg, and the investigation of spinal and supraspinal organization of its antinociceptive effect by pretreatment with non-specific opioid antagonist naloxone (5 mg/kg, i.p.), serotonin 5-HT 2A/2C receptor antagonist ketanserin (1 mg/kg, i.p.), a 2 -adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and non-specific muscarinic antagonist atropine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) before the administration of 300 mg/kg (p.o.) protocatechuic acid in hotplate (integrated supraspinal response) and tail-immersion (spinal reflex) tests in mice.
A fast Spectrophotometric method has been developed for titanium determination in geological matrices, based on the mixture of the sample solution with an exact volume of a single chromogenic solution containing acetate buffer, ascorbic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid DHB, which forms with titanium(IV) ions a yellow complex with absorption maximum at 380 nm. The following parameters were studied: complex stability, pH effect, amount of DHB, amount of acetate buffer, obedience to Beer's law, amount of ascorbic acid and iron masking. The results demonstrated that titanium can be determined in the pH range 4.0–5.0, with a molar absorptivity of 1.43 × 104 1·mol−1 cm−1 and a limit of detection of 2.3 ng/ml. The methodology that allows analysis of 30 samples per hour. Common anions and cations do not interfere, even when present in large amounts. Iron(III) interference can be easily eliminated by reduction to iron(II) using ascorbic acid. Analytical characteristics of the proposed procedure, such as calibration sensitivity, analytical sensitivity, limit of detection and coefficient of variation, were determined. The procedure was applied for titanium determination in various standard geological matrices, with results of satisfactory accuracy and precision (RSD<1%).
80% acetone extracts of the fresh leaves of Alchornea trewioides was successively separated by Sephadex LH-20,MCI gel CHP 20P,and Toyopearl Butyl-650C column chromatography to yield ten phenolic acids and related compounds. Their structures were elucidated by spectroscopic analyses as: salicylic acid( 1),p-hydroxybenzoic acid( 2),2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid( 3),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid( 4),trans-p-coumaric acid( 5),cis-p-coumaric acid( 6),caffeic acid( 7),caffeic acid methyl ester( 8),gallic acid( 9),and methyl gallate( 10). Compounds 1-8,10 were isolated from the Alchornea for the first time.
3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(3,4-DHBA) was electropolymerized on glassy carbon electrode to give the GC/p-3,4-DHBA type electrode which was modified with dopamine by the help of 1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-3-ethyl carbodiimide hydrochloride(EDC) acting as a coupling agent. The carboxylic sites on the polymeric surface of p-3,4-DHBA and mine group at the dopamine gave a QCA(Au)/p-3,4-DHBA-dopamine type of modified electrodes. The o-quinone moieties at the electrode surface exhibited high selectivity to titanium ions in solution. The redox process of the electrode is hydroquinone : quinone +, which had two strong and two weak pairs of peaks at CV. The modified electrode can deposit Ti(IV) ions as much as . The calibration curve of the electrodes, log of the surface coverage-normalized redox response vs log[Ti], exhibited an excellent correlation for titanium concentrations ranging from .
The design and synthesis of a fluorescent probe Fl-Sal-AMS 6 based on the tight-binding inhibitor 5′-O-[N-(salicyl)sulfamoyl]adenosine (Sal-AMS) is described for the aryl acid adenylating enzymes (AAAEs) known as MbtA, YbtE, EntE, VibE, DhbE, and BasE involved in siderophore biosynthesis from Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Yersinia pestis, Escherichia coli, Vibrio cholerae, Bacillus subtilis, and Acinetobacter baumannii, respectively. The probe was successfully used to develop a fluorescence polarization assay for these six AAAEs, and equilibrium dissociation constants were determined in direct binding experiments. Fl-Sal-AMS was effective for AAAEs that utilize salicylic acid or 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid as native substrates, with dissociation constants ranging from 9−369 nM, but was ineffective for AsbC, the AAAE from Bacillus anthracis, which activates 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid. Competitive binding experiments using a series of ligands including substrates, reaction products, and inhibitors provided the f...
The chemical constituents from Lepidogrammitis drymoglossoide(Bak.) Ching were isolated and purified by Column chromatography techniques.Their structures were elucidated by means of spectral analysis and physio-chemical properties.Seven compounds were isolated and their structures were identified as 4-hydroxybenzoic acid(1),esculetin(2),3,4,5-trihydroxybenzoic acid methyl ester(3),caffeic acid(4),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(5),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic formaldehyde(6),and daucosterol(7).Conclusively,all compounds were isolated from this genus for the first time.
Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) has been detected in brain regions which are of relevance for the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, such as the substantia nigra (SN). Furthermore, CYP2E1 is known to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), toxic molecules which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease. We have previously reported that CYP2E1 inhibition increases extracellular dopamine (DA) in the SN. The aims of the present study were by using in vivo microdialysis in rat, to elucidate the mechanisms responsible for the increase in extracellular DA induced by CYP2E1 inhibition and to explore whether ROS is produced in the SN, both with and without the presence of an exogenous CYP2E1 substrate. The effect of inhibition of CYP2E1 by phenylethyl isothiocyanate (100 mg/kg) on extracellular DA in the SN was unaltered following pretreatment with γ-butyrolactone and GBR-12909, drugs that inhibit firing of DA neurons and DA re-uptake, respectively. Preadministration of tetrodotoxin or reserpine, however, abolished the effect of CYP2E1 inhibition. Administration of isoflurane, an anesthetic which is metabolized by CYP2E1, increased the production of •OH in the SN, as measured by the transformation of 4-hydroxybenzoic acid to 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid during local perfusion compared with animals given other anesthetics. The results support the notion that CYP2E1 is located near or in the same compartment in the SN as stored DA, tentatively the endoplasmatic reticulum, and that the enzyme activity might modulate the amount of DA that is available for release. Furthermore, our findings indicate that the production of ROS can be stimulated by CYP2E1 substrates. Synapse 62:379–388, 2008. © 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Objective To study the chemical constituents of Orostachys fimbriatus(Turcz.)Berg..Methods The compounds were isolated and purified by silica gel and Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography.Their chemical structures were elucidated on the basis of physico-chemical properties and spectral data.Results Five compounds were isolated and identified as: oleanolic acid(Ⅰ),daucosterol(Ⅱ),herbacetin-8-O-α-D-lyxopyranoside(Ⅲ),3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid(Ⅳ),uracil(Ⅴ).Conclusion Ⅱ～Ⅴwere first isolated from the plants of Orostachys;Ⅰwas first isolated from this plant.
In the present work an automatic generic tool, based on sequential injection analysis (SIA) for kinetic and inhibition studies of reactions with poorly water-soluble compounds in ionic liquid (IL)-containing systems, is described. ::: ::: The oxidation of the poorly water-soluble phenolic compound, caffeic acid, catalyzed by the mushroom tyrosinase, in different 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate ([bmim][BF4])/buffer mixtures as reaction media, was investigated. This determination was based on measuring depletion rate of the substrate caffeic acid at its maximum wavelength (λmax 311 nm). ::: ::: The influence of several parameters such as substrate and enzyme concentration, temperature, pH, delay times and measurement periods on the sensitivity and performance of the SIA system were studied and the optimum reaction conditions subsequently selected. ::: ::: The obtained results showed that tyrosinase was active in oxidising caffeic acid in this water-miscible IL and the presence of an impaired tyrosinase activity with increase in [bmim][BF4] concentration as an increase in the apparent Michaelis–Menten constant (KMapp) was observed while the maximum reaction rate (Vmaxapp) remained fairly constant. The results were compared to those obtained when the assay was performed in water/methanol mixtures under the same conditions to substantiate [bmim][BF4] as an alternative to conventional organic solvents. ::: ::: Additionally, it was shown that tyrosinase is effectively inhibited by the substrate analogues tested (trans-cinnamic acid and 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid) in the IL-containing aqueous system used.
Rhus verniciflua (Toxicodendron vernicifluum) is a medicinal tree popularly used in Asian countries such as China, Japan, and Korea as a food additive or herbal medicine because of its beneficial effects. R. verniciflua extract (RVE) contains diverse phenolic compounds, such as flavonoids, as its major biological active constituents. In this study, the pharmacokinetic profiles of eight phenolic compounds were investigated following oral administration of RVE to rats. The eight phenolic compounds were 2,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, fisetin, fustin, butin, sulfuretin, taxifolin, and garbanzol. The plasma concentrations of the eight compounds were determined by using a liquid chromatography–triple-quadrupole mass spectrometer before and after treatment with β-glucuronidase. When 1.5 g/kg RVE was administered, the eight compounds were all detected in plasma, mainly as conjugated forms. These pharmacokinetic data would be useful for understanding the pharmacological effects of RVE.
Society demands chemicals from sustainable sources. Identification of commercially important chemicals in crops increases value in biorefineries and reduces reliance on petrochemicals. Miscanthus sinensis and Miscanthus sacchariflorus are high-yielding distinct plants, which are sources of high-value chemicals and bioethanol through fermentation. Cinnamates in leaves, stems and flowers were analysed by LC-ESI-MS n . †  Corresponding author: Tel: +44 (0)1970 823216; Fax: +44 (0)1970 828357; E-mail: ifp@aber.ac.uk † Abbreviations: ADME = absorption, disposition, metabolism, excretion; CADPE = 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)ethyl caffeate; CAPE = 2-phenylethyl caffeate; 2-CaffHydCitA = 2-caffeoylhydroxycitric acid; 3-p-CoQA = 3-para-coumaroylquinic acid; 4-p-CoQA = 4-paracoumaroylquinic acid; 5-p-CoQA = 5-para-coumaroylquinic acid; CaffQA = caffeoylquinic acid; 1-CaffQA = 1-caffeoylquinic acid; 3-CaffQA = 3-caffeoylquinic acid; 4-CaffQA = 4-caffeoylquinic acid; 5-CaffQA = 5-caffeoylquinic acid; CaffSA = caffeoylshikimic acid; 3-CaffSA = 3-caffeoylshikimic acid; 4-CaffSA = 4-caffeoylshikimic acid; 5-CaffSA = 5-caffeoylshikimic acid; 2-CaffTA = 2-caffeoylthreonic acid; 2,3-diHydBA = 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 2,5-diHydBA = 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 3,4-diHydBA = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid; 2,3-diHydBA = 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid hexoside; 3,4-diHydBAHex = 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid hexoside; 1,4-diCaffQA = 1,4-dicaffeoylquinic acid; 1,5-diCaffQA = 1,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid; 3,4-diCaffQA = 3,4-dicaffeoylquinic acid; 3,5-diCaffQA = 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid; FA = ferulic acid; 2-FHydCitA = 2-feruloyl hydroxycitric acid MS = liquid chromatography-electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry; p-CoA = para-coumaric acid; PDA = photodiode array; SA = syringic acid; UV = ultra-violet.
