Abstract Background Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common progressive cardiac arrhythmia and is often associated with rapid contraction in both atria and ventricles. The role of atrial energy and metabolic homeostasis in AF progression is under-investigated. Objectives To determine the remodeling of energy metabolism during persistent AF and the effect of eplerenone (EPL), an aldosterone inhibitor, on metabolic homeostasis. Methods A nonsustained atrial pacing sheep model was developed to simulate the progression of AF from paroxysmal to persistent. Metabolomic and proteomic analyses at termination of the experiment were used to analyze atrial tissues obtained from sheep in sham, sugar pill (SP) and EPL-treated groups. Results Proteomic analysis indicated that compared to the sham group, in SP group, fatty acid (FA) synthesis, FA oxidation, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle processes and amino acids (AAs) transport and metabolism were reduced, while glycolytic processes were increased. In metabolomic analysis, the levels of intermediate metabolites of the glycolytic pathways, including 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2 PG), 1,3-bisphosphoglyceric acid (1,3 PG), and pyruvate, HBP (uridine diphosphate-N-acetylglucosamine, UDP-GlcNAc), TCA (citrate) and AAs were greater while the levels of the majority of lipid classes, including phosphatidic acid (PA), phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylglycerol (PG), glycerophosphoglycerophosphates (PGP), glycerophosphoinositols (PI) and glycerophosphoserines (PS), were decreased in the atria of SP group than in those of sham group. EPL-pretreatment decreased the expression of glut4 and increased the content of acylcarnitines and lipids, such as lyso phospholipids, phospholipids and neutral lipids. Conclusion In the metabolic remodeling during AF, glucose and lipid metabolism were up- and down-regulated, respectively, to sustain TCA cycle anaplerosis. EPL partialy reversed the metabolic shifting.
Abstract Within seven to 10 days after initiation of total intravenous hyperalimentation with solutions lacking added inorganic phosphate, five of eight adults were found to be significantly hypophosphatemic (serum inorganic phosphate less than 1 mg per 100 ml). Associated with this hypophosphatemia was a decrease in erythrocyte glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-6-phosphate, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate, and a marked increase in the concentration of "total triosre phosphates." The reduction in 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and adenosine triphosphate was accompanied by a striking increase in the red cell's affinity for oxygen. In an additional patient studied prospectively, the changes in erythrocyte metabolism were initially manifested by a slight rise in the "total triose phosphates," which was rapidly followed by alterations similar to those described above. These findings suggest that in vivo red-cell glucose metabolism is c...
Enolase, a dimeric enzyme, interconverts 2-phosphoglyceric acid to phosphoenolpyruvate in glycolysis. Due to its catalytic significance, deficiency in this pathway is rare. In year 2000, a male patient was identified with the first case of [beta][beta]-enolase deficiency. It was later determined that his [beta]-enolase gene (EN03) carried two missense mutations changing two conserved amino acids: G156D and G374E. The authors who identified this disease suggested that the stability of the enzyme might have been altered. Our research focuses on one of the mutations (G374E), which was introduced into yeast enolase. The yeast enzyme was utilized due to its high sequence identity with the human enzyme, multiple known crystal structures bearing conserved structural characteristics and easy laboratory manipulation. The purified G376E protein is folded but nearly inactive. The subunit dissociation constant was increased by 1000-fold. Although the chemical and thermal stability of the enzyme was not greatly altered, the susceptibility towards proteolytic digestion was significantly high due to weaker dimer stability. Furthermore, our kinetic study shows greatly altered catalytic ability and affinity towards metal ion and substrate. Aside from the original mutation, smaller polar and/or charged amino acids were substituted to examine the cause of the changes observed above. The results indicate that although not directly participating in catalysis or subunit interaction, amino acid 376 plays an important role in subunit interaction and catalytic activity
Summary A 2-phosphoglyceric acid phosphatase (2-phosphoglycerate phosphohydrolase) has been identified and partially purified from beef liver. The purification of 2-phosphoglyceric acid phosphatase from other non-specific liver phosphatases was based on the relative activity of 2- or 3-phosphoglycerate to α-glycerophosphate and β-glycerophosphate during the preparation. The final preparations had high specificity for 2-phosphoglycerate but with variable low activity with other substrates. Further purification was prevented by low final yields of enzyme. Data are presented on the kinetics, specificity and inhibition of the enzyme preparations obtained. The identification of 2-phosphoglyceric acid phosphatase completes the description of the mammalian enzymes of serine biosynthesis from carbohydrate intermediates. Both “phosphorylated” and “non-phosphorylated” pathways appear to be present in mammalian systems but the relative significance of each is not yet known.
The gene encoding enolase from Fusobacterium nucleatum (FnENO) was cloned and analyzed for the first time. The gene comprises of 1302 nucleotide base pairs and encodes 433 amino acids. The gene sequence alignment demonstrated the presence of several distinct insertions and deletions, compared with the human enzyme. The gene for recombinant FnENO was inserted into the pLATE 31 vector system and expressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) cells as a soluble protein. The protein was purified by affinity chromatography using a Ni-NTA agarose matrix and shown on SDS-PAGE to be a 46 kDa protein. The molecular weight of the octameric form of the purified recombinant protein was determined as being 375 kDa by size exclusion chromatography. Optimal enzyme activity was observed at pH 8.5 and the enzyme remained stable at a range of different temperatures from 30 to 60°C. Using 2-phosphoglyceric acid as substrate for the purified enzyme, K M, k cat and k cat/K M were determined as 0.48 mM, 20.4 s–1 and 4.22 × 104 M–1s–1, respectively. Potential drug binding sites of FnENO were detected using homology modeling. These data could facilitate the design of new inhibitors of F. nucleatum which has already been shown to be resistant to several known antibiotics.
Enolase catalyzes the reversible dehydration of 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA) to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) near the end of the glycolytic pathway. During enolase catalysis, three major loops undergo a large position change upon substrate and metal ion binding, especially in the active site loop (Pro35-Ala45). The hinge sites in the active site loop are Gly residues at positions 37 and 41. To gain some information about the function of active site loop movement in catalysis and subunit interactions, the Gly residues at position 37 and 41 in yeast enolase have been mutated to Ala. These observations confirm the active site loop movement is not only essential for correctly positioning Ser39 for coordination of the catalytic metal ion, but also plays some crucial function in maintaining the proper linkage with other loops. In turn, these precise loop conformations are essential in maintaining the correct active site structure and proper subunit interactions
Enolase is a metalloenzyme which catalyzes the elimination of H20 from 2-phosphoglyceric acid (PGA) to form phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP). Mg2+ and Zn2+ are cofactors which strongly bind and activate the enzyme. Ca2+ also binds strongly but does not produce activity. Phosphoglycolate (PG) is a competitive inhibitor of enolase. The structures of two inhibitory ternary complexes: yeast enolase- Ca2+-PGA and yeast enolase-Zn2+-PG, were determined by X-ray diffraction to 2.2-A resolution and were refined by crystallographic least-squares to R = 14.8% and 15.7%, respectively, with good geometries of the models. These structures are compared with the structure of the precatalytic ternary complex eno- lase-Mg2+-PGA/PEP (Lebioda & Stec, 199 l). In the complex enolase-Ca2+-PGA, the PGA molecule coordinates to the Ca2+ ion with the hydroxyl group, as in the precatalytic complex. The conformation of the PGA molecule is however different. In the active complex, the organic part of the PGA molecule is planar, similar to the product. In the inhibitory complex, the carboxylic group is in an orthonormal conformation. In the inhibitory complex enolase-Zn2+-PG, the PG molecule coordiantes with the carboxylic group in a monodentate mode. In both inhibitory complexes, the conformational changes in flexible loops, which were observed in the precatalytic complex, do not take place. The lack of catalytic metal ion binding suggests that these conformational changes are necessary for the formation of the catalytic metal ion binding site.
Abstract Yeast enolase has been reacted with 2,3-butanedione in borate buffer and the number of arginine residues modified has been measured as a function of enzymatic activity. Activity losses are linear with respect to arginine modification, with complete inactivation being correlated with the alteration of one arginine per subunit. The tryptic peptide whose arginine is modified has been isolated using O -(triethylaminoethyl)-cellulose chromatography and paper electrophoresis and is a dipeptide, leucyl-arginine. Protection against loss of activity is afforded by the addition of substrate, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, or a competitive inhibitor, 3-aminoenolpyruvate-2-phosphate (AEP), and Mg; elimination of the Mg, a prerequisite for substrate or inhibitor binding, eliminates the protection afforded by substrate. It is suggested that a single arginine residue per subunit of enolase is necessary for enzymatic activity and is located at or near the substrate binding site (active site). The binding of a chromophoric competitive inhibitor, AEP, to native and butanedione-reacted enolase was examined by spectrophotometric titrations. Compared to the native enzyme, the butanedione-inactivated enolase binds AEP, but with an extinction coefficient for the inhibitor that is about two-thirds of the native value; the binding affinities are comparable. The strong binding of the modified enzyme for AEP suggests that the arginine, although critical for enzymatic activity, is not significantly involved in the overall binding of the inhibitor.
Enolases (2-phospho-D-glycerate hydrolase, EC 4.2.1.11) were purified from both pig liver and muscle. Graphs of 1n C vs. r2 from sedimentation equilibrium experiments are linear, which suggests homogeneous preparations of liver and muscle enolases. From these data the molecular weight of liver enolase is calculated to be approximately 92,000 D and that of muscle enolase to be approximately 85,000 D. SDS-PAGE experiments give a molecular weight value of 46,000 D for liver enolase and a value of 44,000 D for muscle enolase. These molecular weight values for liver and muscle enzymes are within the range for other enolases and show that both of these pig enolases are dimers. Amino acid composition data support the sedimentation equilibrium data and also give a smaller molecule weight (84,968 D) for muscle enolase compared to that of the liver enzyme (89,021 D). The two enzymes differ in their content of lysine [liver enolase (L) = 94 residues, muscle enolase (M) = 68 residues], histidine (L = 13, M = 21), serine (L = 53, M = 36), proline (L = 52, M = 34), and cysteine (L = 4, M = 21). Partial specific volumes of 0.737 ml/g for liver enolase and 0.735 ml/g for muscle enolase were calculated from the amino acid composition data. Pig liver and muscle enolases differ radically in their isoelectric points (pI = 6.4-6.5 for liver enolase, and pI = 8.8-9.0 for muscle enolase), and in their degree of inactivation by 740 mM LiCl (liver enolase is inactivated to a greater degree than the muscle enolase). Despite these physical and chemical differences, the kinetic constants [KM values for Mg2+, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, and phospho(enol)pyruvate] appear not to be significantly different for these two forms of enolase. The physical, chemical, and kinetic data for pig liver and muscle enolases are compared to similar data for pig kidney enolase.
Ethanol, acetaldehyde, and acetic acid, when applied in a volatile state in air to potato tubers, led to a climacteric-like upsurge in respiration. The respiratory upsurge was markedly enhanced when the volatiles were applied in 100% O 2 . Ethanol induced a decline in the level of 2-phosphoglyceric acid and phosphoenolpyruvate while leading to the accumulation of tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates including isocitrate and α-ketoglutarate. The action of these compounds was similar to, but independent of, the action of ethylene.
Ethanol induced a decline in the level of 2-phosphoglyceric acid and phosphoenolpyruvate while leading tu the accumulation of tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates including isocitrate and a-ketoglutarate. The action of these compounds was similar to, but independent of, the action of ethylene.
Acetaldehyde and Ethanol Determinations. Changes in acetaldehyde and ethanol in the potato tubers were measured according to the method of Davis and Chace (3). Twenty-five g tissue increments from each of two potatoes were combined and homogenized in 50 ml of cold trichloroacetic acid. A 40-ml aliquot of the homogenate was placed in a 125-ml serum bottle and the latter capped. The serum bottles were incubated in a water bath at 37 C for 1 h. After incubation, l-ml samples were drawn from the head space and used for the determination of acetaldehyde and ethanol by gas chromatography, using a Porapak Q column. The concen2Abbreviations: 2-PGA: 2-phosphoglyceric acid; 3-PGA: 3-phosphoglyceric acid; PEP: phosphoenolpyruvate. 108
This study is concerned with the catalytic and regulatory properties of soluble inorganic pyrophosphatase of the nonsulfur purple photosynthetic bacterium Rhodospirillum rubrum. A procedure is described for reproducible 100-fold purification of the enzyme, which shows complex kinetic behavior. Free Mg2+ is an activator of the pyrophosphatase, and virtually eliminates the sigmoidicity otherwise observed in the substrate (magnesium pyrophosphate) saturation kinetic curves. In the absence of appreciable free Mg2+, the enzyme is inhibited by 2-phosphoglyceric acid, which has the effect of increasing the [S]0.5 value (substrate concentration required for half-maximal velocity) and of decreasing V. The pyrophosphatase, in dilute solution, is slowly inactivated when the pH is less than 8.6, and this is specifically prevented by Zn2+. Inactivation caused by exposure to low pH (7.6–8.2) can be reversed partially by addition of Zn2+ and/or exposure to high pH (9–9.5). Full reactivation can be achieved by proper adjustment of pH and Zn2+ concentration, together with addition of a reductant (dithionite). The pH-induced inactivation is accelerated by nucleoside triphosphates, reduced pyridine nucleotides, and the allosteric inhibitor, 2-phosphoglyceric acid. Such inactivations are reversible, and are not accompanied by change in molecular weight of the enzyme (∼100000). It appears that the R. rubrum inorganic pyrophosphatase can exist in several interconvertible states, which are characterized by inherently different specific activities. Transitions between alternative states are influenced by the various chemical modifiers and conditions noted, and the phenomena described provide a basis for further investigation of the mechanisms responsible for regulation of the enzyme's activity.
The reaction catalyzed by crystalline yeast phosphoglyceric acid mutase is inhibited by the substrate (d-2-phosphoglyceric acid). In order to elucidate the mechanism of this substrate inhibition, detailed investigations have been performed. It is proved that the substrate inhibition in this enzyme reaction is caused by the facts that the coenzyme-binding site on the enzyme is covered by the substrate and the combination of the coenzyme with the enzyme is interfered by the substrate. Consequently, it is concluded that the substrate is a competitive inhibitor of the coenzyme.
Abstract Diphosphoglycerate mutase has been purified from the red blood cells of rabbits and humans. The enzyme is found only in the soluble fraction of human red cell hemolysates at an average level of 0.93 unit per ml of packed cells. The stoichiometry has been verified as: 1,3-PGA + 3-PGA → 2,3-PGA + 3-PGA where PGA is phosphoglyceric acid. The kinetic studies with the human enzyme indicate Km values of 0.53 µm for 1,3-diphosphoglycerate and 1 to 1.5 µm for 3-phosphoglycerate. 2,3-Diphosphoglycerate is a competitive inhibitor of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate with a Ki of 0.85 µm; it is noncompetitive with 3-phosphoglycerate. Inorganic phosphate inhibits competitively with 3-phosphoglycerate with a Ki of 314 µm. The Km of 1,3-diphosphoglyceric acid is independent of the level of 3-phosphoglycerate. An ordered bimolecular reaction is proposed in which 1,3-diphosphoglycerate combines with free enzyme, followed by the combination with 3-phosphoglycerate to form a ternary complex. After conversion to the products, 3-phosphoglycerate is released before 2,3-diphosphoglycerate. Diphosphoglycerate mutase is inhibited by sulfhydryl reagents and purified fractions require the addition of mercaptoethanol for optimal activity. Phosphoglycolic acid is stimulatory at levels below 0.4 mm and inhibitory at higher levels. 2-Phosphoglycerate is an activator of the reaction. It decreases the Km of 3-phosphoglycerate and increases the over-all activity of the enzyme. 2-Phosphoglyceric acid also acts as a phosphate acceptor in the over-all reaction to produce 2,3-diphosphoglycerate.
Blood serum of oncologic patients due to immunoglobulin involved in its composition, activates glycolysis in the soluble fraction of muscles when using starch, glycogen and glucose as substrates. The activation is registered under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. When elucidating the immunoglobulin effect in a glycolytic chain under aerobic conditions it is shown that its activating effect in the incomplete incubation system is manifested with such glycolysis substrates as fructose-6-phosphate and 2-phosphoglyceric acid. Glycolysis activation with serum is insignificant or absent at all with the presence of glucose-6-phosphate, fructose-1,6-diphosphate, 3-phosphoglyceric aldehide, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvic acid, sodium pyruvate. Immunoglobulin isolated from the blood serum of oncologic patients does not affect the activity of purified preparations of hexokinase, glycerinaldehydephosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. When using the air as a gas medium lactate dehydrogenase is activated by immunoglobulin. Lactate dehydrogenase activity under aerobic and anaerobic conditions is essentially lower than in the case when the air serves as a gas medium.
A simple two-step procedure for purification of enolase from germinated spores or vegetative cells of Bacillus megaterium is described. The procedure resulted in a 1,200-fold purification with production of homogeneous enzyme in approximately 75% yield; the enzymes from spores and cells seemed identical. The molecular weight of the native enzyme was 335,000, with a subunit molecular weight of 42,000. The enzyme required Mg2+ and was inhibited by ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and fluoride ions. The Michaelis constants for 2-phosphoglyceric acid and Mg2+ were 7.1 X 10(-4) and 4.7 X 10(-4) M, respectively.
alpha-enolase of Bacillus anthracis has recently been classified as an immunodominant antigen and a potent virulence factor determinant. alpha-enolase (2-phospho-d-glycerate hydrolase (EC 4.2.1.11), a key glycolytic metalloenzyme catalyzes the dehydration of d-(+)-2-phosphoglyceric acid to phosphoenolpyruvate. Interaction of surface bound alpha-enolase with plasminogen has been incriminated in tissue invasion for pathogenesis. B. anthracis alpha-enolase was expressed in Escherichia coli and the recombinant enzyme was purified to homogeneity that exhibited a K(m) of 3.3 mM for phosphoenolpyruvate and a V(max) of 0.506 microM min(- 1) mg(-1). B. anthracis whole cells and membrane vesicles probed with anti-enolase antibodies confirmed the surface localization of alpha-enolase. The specific interaction of alpha-enolase with human plasminogen (but not plasmin) evident from ELISA and the retardation in the native gel reinforced its role in plasminogen binding. Putative plasminogen receptors in B. anthracis other than enolase were also observed. This binding was found to be carboxypeptidase sensitive implicating the role of C-terminal lysine residues. The recombinant enolase displayed in vitro laminin binding, an important mammalian extracellular matrix protein. Plasminogen interaction conferred B. anthracis with a potential to in vitro degrade fibronectin and exhibit fibrinolytic phenotype. Therefore, by virtue of its interaction to host plasminogen and extracellular matrix proteins, alpha-enolase may contribute in augmenting the invasive potential of B. anthracis.
Alpha-enolase (ENO1), also known as 2-phospho-D-glycerate hydrolase, is a metalloenzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 2-phosphoglyceric acid to phosphoenolpyruvic acid in the glycolytic pathway. It is a multifunctional glycolytic enzyme involved in cellular stress, bacterial and fungal infections, autoantigen activities, the occurrence and metastasis of cancer, parasitic infections, and the growth, development and reproduction of organisms. This article mainly reviews the basic characteristics and biological functions of ENO1.
Plasma plasminogen Cancer Parasite a b s t r a c t Alpha-enolase (ENO1), also known as 2-phospho-D-glycerate hydrolase, is a metalloenzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 2-phosphoglyceric acid to phosphoenolpyruvic acid in the glycolytic pathway. It is a multifunctional glycolytic enzyme involved in cellular stress, bacterial and fungal infections, autoantigen activities, the occurrence and metastasis of cancer, parasitic infections, and the growth, development and reproduction of organisms. This article mainly reviews the basic characteristics and biological functions of ENO1.
The interaction of Mn++ with enolase and with DL-2-phosphoglyceric acid has been studied with the electron-spin-resonance technique. In both cases the hyperfine structure disappears in the complex, and this makes it possible to determine the dissociation constants. The results obtained by the electron-spn-resonance studies agree with those obtained from chemical equilibrium measurements. The binding studies were carried out at a high ionic strength (μ = 0.50) which was found to suppress non-specific binding to the enzyme. A comparison with the activation kinetics shows that activation involves the binding of a single ion of Mn++ per mole of enzyme. The data also indicate that the metal ion is involved in binding the substrate to the enzyme.
Enolase is a metalloenzyme which catalyzes the elimination of H2O from 2-phosphoglyceric acid (PGA) to form phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP). Mg2+ and Zn2+ are cofactors which strongly bind and activate the enzyme. Ca2+ also binds strongly but does not produce activity. Phosphoglycolate (PG) is a competitive inhibitor of enolase. The structures of two inhibitory ternary complexes: yeast enolase-Ca2(+)-PGA and yeast enolase-Zn2(+)-PG, were determined by X-ray diffraction to 2.2-A resolution and were refined by crystallographic least-squares to R = 14.8% and 15.7%, respectively, with good geometries of the models. These structures are compared with the structure of the precatalytic ternary complex enolase-Mg2(+)-PGA/PEP (Lebioda & Stec, 1991). In the complex enolase-Ca2(+)-PGA, the PGA molecule coordinates to the Ca2+ ion with the hydroxyl group, as in the precatalytic complex. The conformation of the PGA molecule is however different. In the active complex, the organic part of the PGA molecule is planar, similar to the product. In the inhibitory complex, the carboxylic group is in an orthonormal conformation. In the inhibitory complex enolase-Zn2(+)-PG, the PG molecule coordinates with the carboxylic group in a monodentate mode. In both inhibitory complexes, the conformational changes in flexible loops, which were observed in the precatalytic complex, do not take place. The lack of catalytic metal ion binding suggests that these conformational changes are necessary for the formation of the catalytic metal ion binding site.
Abstract The phenylalanine inhibition of skeletal muscle pyruvate kinase has been further studied. Even at high levels of the inhibitor the plots of reaction rates as a function of phosphoenolpyruvate concentration give hyperbolic curves; the inhibition by phenylalanine is of the mixed type. The enzyme exhibits a homotropic cooperative effect with respect to this inhibitor. This property is strongly dependent on pH. Serine, cysteine, and alanine reversed this inhibition. The reactivating amino acids greatly increase the I0.5 but do not alter the cooperativity of the inhibitor. These effects were not found with 2-phosphoglyceric acid, an isosteric inhibitor. In fact, the inhibition is independent of pH and it is not reversed by the amino acids. Furthermore the enzyme follows Michaelis-Menten kinetics with respect to this inhibitor. The reassociation of the enzyme from its subunits markedly decreases the homotropic cooperative effect of phenylalanine. It is concluded that this amino acid is an allosteric inhibitor.
Hexa histidine tagged recombinant Plasmodium falciparum enolase (His6-Pfen) was covalently immobilized on a Langmuir–Blodgett film of a self assembled mixture of 10,12-pentacosadiynoic acid and its N-succinimidyl ester derivative (PDA LB-film). The film was polymerized with a UV-lamp at 254 nm to obtain a blue coloured, protein hooked polydiacetylene film. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to characterize the surface morphology of the protein-immobilized film. The colorimetric response (CR) of the His6-Pfen hooked PDA LB-film to 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA), the substrate of enolase, in the presence of magnesium ions was studied spectrophotometrically. The CR of glutathione S-transferasePfen (GST-Pfen) immobilized film prepared by using similar procedure was also examined. The results suggest that binding of Mg (II) to the enzyme facilitates the interaction of the enzyme with 2-phosphoglycerate. This ligand-binding event could be detected by an observed increase in colorimetric response of the film by ∼10%. Thus the incorporation of enolase on a PDA film resulted in the formation of a novel material, which can serve as a biosensor. © 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Abstract 1. 1. Methods were developed for the separation and measurement of phosphoenol-pyruvate and the phosphoglyceric acids in muscle by means of prolonged equilibration of the isolated muscles with [32P]Pi. These methods were applied to a study of the changes in the concentrations of these materials in the course of a single contraction in pairs of isolated muscles, one muscle was contracted and the other served as the control. 2. 2. 1,3-[32P]Diphosphoglyceric acid was found to be present in variable amounts (0.3-1.1 μmoles/g) in three pairs of muscles but absent in the extracts of three other pairs. The size and direction of such changes as were found in some muscles together with the complete absence of 1,3-[32P]diphosphoglyceric acid in the others are an indication that the non-radioactive form of this acid is not the net energy source for contraction. 3. 3. The phosphoenolpyruvate content of three pairs of muscles was found to be below 0.06 μmole per g muscle which, on a quantitative basis, eliminates this compound from consideration as a net energy source in muscular contraction. 4. 4. The combined acid-stable phosphoglyceric acids were found to present at a concentration of about 0.6 μmole per g muscle in both control and constracted muscles. This lack of quantitative change during contraction precludes the possobility of their serving as either net precursor or product (from 1,3-diphophoglyceric acid) in the energetics of muscular contraction. 5. 5. 2-Phosphoglyceric acid, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, 1,3-diphosphoglyceric acid and phosphoenolpyruvate are excluded as net energy sources for single contractions of living muscle.
Some glycolytic enzymes (lactate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase, enolase and phosphoglyceromutase) were immobilized on a polyacrylamide-type bead polymer containing carboxylic functional groups activated by water-soluble carbodiimide. The immobilized enzymes were used for the determination of pyruvic acid, phosphoenolpyruvic acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid and 3-phosphoglyceric acid in a flow injection system. The immobilized lactate dehydrogenase column was repeatedly employed for the determination of pyruvic acid in clinical samples. The results of the flow injection method accorded well in accuracy, sensitivity and reproducibility with those of soluble enzyme analysis.
The present work is based on the fact that hybridoma cells consume glucose and glutamine much faster than required to maintain cell growth. To modify this trend, metabolic engineering strategies have been applied with the objective to reduce the rates of glutaminolysis and glycolysis and verify the feasibility of this approach. Modification of glutaminolysis has been achieved following transfection and expression of a cloned glutamine synthetase gene. In addition, modification of glycolysis has been studied by means of antisense RNA techniques directed to lower the glycolytic rate in two different stages: transport of glucose into the cell and the metabolic step catalysed by the enzyme enolase, responsible for the conversion of 2-phosphoglyceric acid to phosphoenolpyruvic acid.
Triethanolamine chloride, Tris, pyrophosphate buffer, sodium pyruvate, NAD, NADH, ATP, ADP, AMP, 2-mercaptoethanol, dithiothreitol, EDTA, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6diphosphate, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, DL-3-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvic acid, dihydroxyacetone phosphate and glycylglycine were purchased from Sigma Chemical Co., St Louis, Missouri, U.S.A. The following enzymes were also purchased from Sigma: hexokinase
Abstract 1. 1. The substrate kinetics of the enolase reaction has been investigated with Mg ++ , Mn ++ , and Zn ++ as activating ions. No differences in the affinities of the three metallo-enzymes for the substrate could be detected. 2. 2. The interaction of bovine serum albumin with dl -2-phosphoglyceric acid has been studied with and without added Zn ++ . It was shown that Zn ++ can act as a mediator in the binding of the acid to the protein. 3. 3. The interaction of purified enolase with its substrates has been studied with and without added Mg ++ or Zn ++ . It was found that the substrates are bound to the enzyme also in the absence of metal ions.
Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM) plays an essential role in the pathways of both glycolysis and gluconeogenesis, where this enzyme interconverts 3-phosphoglyceric acid (3PGA) and 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2PGA). There are two different types of PGM, the cofactor-dependent PGMs (dPGMs) that require 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid (DPG) for catalysis, in which this latter molecule participates as a phosphate donor, and the cofactor-independent PGMs (iPGMs) that do not require DPG. The dPGMs are the major and often the only PGM present in vertebrates (including humans), certain invertebrates, fungi and some bacteria, primarily Gram-negative ones such as Escherichia coli. These enzymes have a polypeptide of 25 kDa, are invariably oligomeric, and their amino acid sequences are well conserved across species (Fothergill-Gilmore and Watson, 1989) . The dPGMs are also evolutionarily related to a family of acid phosphatases (Schneider et al., 1993) and to fructose 2,6-bisphosphatase (Bazan and Fletterick, 1990) . The iPGMs are the only or predominant PGM in higher plants, selected invertebrates, some algae and fungi, and many other bacteria, in particular Gram-positive bacteria including members of the sporeforming Bacillus and Clostridium species as well as closely related organisms that have lost the ability to form spores (Chander et al., 1998) . These latter organisms include members of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus species, some of which are important human pathogens. Consequently, it is possible that iPGMs could be a target for rational design of a novel antibiotic. Interestingly, some bacteria have genes for both an iPGM and a dPGM, but only one enzyme comprises the great majority of these organisms' PGM activity (Fraser et al., 1999) . In contrast to the dPGMs, the iPGMs function as monomers of 60 kDa, and there is no significant sequence homology between these two types of enzymes, although the amino acid sequences of iPGMs have also been well conserved in evolution (Chander et al., 1999) . In addition, iPGMs exhibit partial sequence homology to alkaline phosphatases, albeit only in an~70 amino acid region corresponding to the metal-binding site of the alkaline phosphatases (Galperin et al., 1998) . This suggests that iPGMs may be a divergent member of the alkaline phosphatase family. Taken together, these data indicate that the iPGMs and the dPGMs almost certainly have both different structures and catalytic mechanisms, and this latter point is further supported by the lack of inhibition of iPGMs by compounds such as vanadate that inhibit the dPGMs. However, while the structure and mechanism of the dPGMs are known in great detail, this information is generally lacking for the iPGMs.
The physiological and biochemical characterization of PCC 11802 showed striking differences compared to PCC 11801. Our results show that the exponential growth of PCC 11802 is better than PCC 11801 under low light-low CO 2 , low light-high CO 2, and high light-high CO 2 conditions. PCC 11802 accumulates ~3 fold more and ~5 fold less glycogen than PCC 11801 under ambient and 1% CO 2 , respectively. PCC 11802 thus diverts more carbon for growth at 1% CO 2 compared to PCC 11801. We performed metabolomics studies to assess possible reasons for the higher growth rate of PCC 11802 compared to PCC 11801 under high CO 2 conditions. The results Scientific RepoRtS | (2020) 10:191 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-57051-0 www.nature.com/scientificreports www.nature.com/scientificreports/ Figure 5 . LCMS based analysis of metabolic pool sizes in PCC 11802 and 11801 under elevated CO 2 conditions. The bar graphs represent the ratio of metabolite pools at 1% CO 2 /ambient (0.04%) CO 2 in PCC 11802 and 11801. The metabolites represented in the figure show the difference between PCC 11802 and 11801 at a p-value < 0.01 using the t-test with the exception of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), acetyl coenzyme A (Ac-CoA) and ADP-glucose (ADPG) which show p-values of 0.02, 0.09 and 0.5 respectively. The relative metabolite pool sizes in each condition were estimated by extracting the metabolites as described previously and mixing with an extract of PCC 11801 which is fully labeled with isotopic 13 C carbon. High-resolution LCMS data was collected by achieving separation of metabolites using a reverse phase, ion-pairing chromatography method. The ratio of areas of the 12 C monoisotopic peak to the respective 13 C monoisotopic peak was quantified for each metabolite, which served as a measure of relative pool size in a given condition. Abbreviations used for metabolites, ADPG: ADP-glucose, Ac-CoA: acetyl coenzyme A, AKG: alpha-ketoglutaric acid, ASP: aspartic acid, CIT: citric acid, DHAP: dihydroxyacetone phosphate, FBP: fructose 1,6 bisphosphate, F6P: fructose-6phosphate, GAP: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate, GLU: glutamate, G1P: glucose-1-phosphate, G6P: glucose-6-phosphate, ISO-CIT: isocitric acid, MAL: malic acid, OAA: oxaloacetic acid, PEP: phosphoenolpyruvate, PYR: pyruvic acid, RuBP: ribulose 1,5 bisphosphate, Ru5P: ribulose-5-phosphate, R5P: ribulose-5-phosphate, SBP: sedoheptulose 1,7 bisphosphate, SSA: succinyl semialdehyde, SUC: sucrose, SUCC: succinate, SUC-6-P: sucrose-6-phosphate, S7P: sedoheptulose-7-bisphosphate, UDPG: UDP-glucose, 2PGA: 2-phosphoglyceric acid, and 3PGA: 3-phosphoglyceric acid.
The levels of glucose, sugar phosphates, and adenosine phosphates were determined in primary leaves of intact bean plants during normal senescence and compared to leaves in which senescence was delayed by application of benzyladenine (BA). In both cases there was a rise with time in the levels of glucose 1-phosphate, glucose 6-phosphate, and fructose 6-phosphate, and a decline in 2-phosphoglyceric acid, inorganic phosphate, and the adenosine phosphates (AMP, ADP, ATP). The levels of fructose 1,6-diphosphate remained fairly constant. Although the levels of hexose phosphates, adenosine phosphates, and inorganic phosphate were lower in the BA-treated leaves, the incorporation of 32P into these compounds by 3- and 6-week-old plants was higher than in the controls. These results suggest that the retardation of leaf senescence by BA in intact bean plants is associated with increased utilization of metabolites, indicating a more rapid turnover of the adenosine phosphates. It is concluded that this effect is brought about by a regulatory coordination of metabolic processes in relation to energy production and utilization.
The levels of glucose, sugar phosphates, and adenosine phosphates were determined in primary leaves of intact bean plants during normal senescence and compared to leaves in which senescence was delayed by application of benzyladenine (BA). In both cases there was a rise with time in the levels of glucose 1-phosphate, glucose 6-phosphate, and fructose 6-phosphate, and a decline in 2-phosphoglyceric acid, inorganic phosphate, and the adenosine phosphates (AMP, ADP, ATP). The levels of fructose 1,6-diphosphate remained fairly constant. Although the levels of hexose phosphates, adenosine phosphates, and inorganic phosphate were lower in the BA-treated leaves, the incorporation of 32P into these compounds by 3-and 6-week-old plants was higher than in the controls. These results suggest that the retardation of leaf senescence by BA in intact bean plants is associated with increased utilization of metabolites, indicating a more rapid turnover of the adenosine phosphates. It is concluded that this effect is brought about by a regulatory coordination of metabolic processes in relation to energy production and utilization.
Enolase in the presence of Mg2+ catalyzes the elimination of H2O from 2-phosphoglyceric acid (PGA) to form phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) and the reverse reaction, the hydration of PEP to PGA. The structure of the ternary complex yeast enolase-Mg2(+)-PGA/PEP has been determined by X-ray diffraction and refined by crystallographic restrained least-squares to an R = 16.9% for those data with I/sigma (I) greater than or equal to 2 to 2.2-A resolution with a good geometry of the model. The structure indicates the substrate molecule in the active site has its hydroxyl group coordinated to the Mg2+ ion. The carboxylic group interacts with the side chains of His373 and Lys396. The phosphate group is H-bonded to the guanidinium group of Arg374. A water molecule H-bonded to the carboxylic groups of Glu168 and Glu211 is located at a 2.6-A distance from carbon-2 of the substrate in the direction of its proton. We propose that this cluster functions as the base abstracting the proton in the catalytic process. The proton is probably transferred, first to the water molecule, then to Glu168, and further to the substrate hydroxyl to form a water molecule. Some analogy is apparent between the initial stages of the enolase reverse reaction, the hydration of PEP, and the proteolytic mechanism of the metallohydrolases carboxypeptidase A and thermolysin. The substrate/product binding is accompanied by large movements of loops Ser36-His43 and Ser158-Gly162. The role of these conformational changes is not clear at this time.
Enolase (2-phospho-D-glycerate hydrolase) is a necessary dimeric glycolytic enzyme, which acts as a catalyzer of interconversion of 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA) and phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) during the glycolysis process (Labbe et al., 2006 ). That's why; the gene that is known to encode the T. parva enolase (TpEno) was chosen as the drug target since it is the main enzyme throughout the glycolytic process. In present study sequence analysis of TpEno and the homology modeling for the 3D structure of TpEno were performed for the first time in the literature. The aim of this process is to determine the key drug target through the comparative analyses of the 3D structure of the target and the mammalian host Bos taurus enolase (BtEno).
Triosephosphate isomerases (TPIs) from Taenia solium (TsTPI) and Schistosoma mansoni (SmTPI) are potential vaccine and drug targets against cysticercosis and schistosomiasis, respectively. This is due to the dependence of parasitic helminths on glycolysis and because those proteins elicit an immune response, presumably due to their surface localization. Here we report the crystal structures of TsTPI and SmTPI in complex with 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA). Both TPIs fold into a dimeric (β-α)8 barrel in which the dimer interface consists of α-helices 2, 3, and 4, and swapping of loop 3. TPIs from parasitic helminths harbor a region of three amino acids knows as the SXD/E insert (S155 to E157 and S157 to D159 in TsTPI and SmTPI, respectively). This insert is located between α5 and β6 and is proposed to be the main TPI epitope. This region is part of a solvent-exposed 310-helix that folds into a hook-like structure. The crystal structures of TsTPI and SmTPI predicted conformational epitopes that could be used for vaccine design. Surprisingly, the epitopes corresponding to the SXD/E inserts are not the ones with the greatest immunological potential. SmTPI, but not TsTPI, habors a sole solvent exposed cysteine (SmTPI-S230) and alterations in this residue decrease catalysis. The latter suggests that thiol-conjugating agents could be used to target SmTPI. In sum, the crystal structures of SmTPI and TsTPI are a blueprint for targeted schistosomiasis and cysticercosis drug and vaccine development.
Triosephosphate isomerases (TPIs) from Taenia solium (TsTPI) and Schistosoma mansoni (SmTPI) are potential vaccine and drug targets against cysticercosis and schistosomiasis, respectively. This is due to the dependence of parasitic helminths on glycolysis and because those proteins elicit an immune response, presumably due to their surface localization. Here we report the crystal structures of TsTPI and SmTPI in complex with 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA). Both TPIs fold into a dimeric (β-α) 8 barrel in which the dimer interface consists of α-helices 2, 3, and 4, and swapping of loop 3. TPIs from parasitic helminths harbor a region of three amino acids knows as the SXD/E insert (S155 to E157 and S157 to D159 in TsTPI and SmTPI, respectively). This insert is located between α5 and β6 and is proposed to be the main TPI epitope. This region is part of a solvent-exposed 3 10 -helix that folds into a hook-like structure. The crystal structures of TsTPI and SmTPI predicted conformational epitopes that could be used for vaccine design. Surprisingly, the epitopes corresponding to the SXD/E inserts are not the ones with the greatest immunological potential. SmTPI, but not TsTPI, habors a sole solvent exposed cysteine (SmTPI-S230) and alterations in this residue decrease catalysis. The latter suggests that thiol-conjugating agents could be used to target SmTPI. In sum, the crystal structures of SmTPI and TsTPI are a blueprint for targeted schistosomiasis and cysticercosis drug and vaccine development.
Phylogenetic analysis indicates that TPIs from parasitic flatworms harbor a three amino acids motif (SXD/E) not present in TPIs from non-parasitic flatworms or TPIs from the hosts. This region is a putative target to design vaccines or drugs against schistosomiasis and cysticercosis [42] . Although triosephosphate isomerases are a possible target for vaccine and drug design against helminth associated diseases, the only structural information of a triosephosphate isomerase from a helminth is the one from the trematode Opisthorchis viverrini (OvTPI) [43] . Here we determined the crystal structures of TPIs from Taenia solium (TsTPI) and Schistosoma mansoni (TsTPI) in complex with their inhibitor 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA) to assess whether those structures could be used as direct scaffolds against cysticercosis and schistosomiasis.
The gene encoding an enolase from Desulfovibrio vulgaris (Miyazaki F) was cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. A 2.1-kb DNA fragment, isolated from D. vulgaris (Miyazaki F) by double digestion with PstI and BamHI, contained an enolase gene (eno) and part of the methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase gene (folD). The nucleotide sequence of eno indicates that the protein monomer is composed of 434 amino acids. An expression system for eno under control of the T7 promoter was constructed in E. coli. The purified His-tagged enolase formed a homooctamer and was active in the formation of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) as well as in the reverse reaction, the formation of D-(+)-2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA). The pH dependence and kinetic properties of the recombinant enolase from the sulfate-reducing bacterium were also studied. The amounts of eno mRNA when the bacterium was grown on glycerol or glucose were compared to that when D. vulgaris was grown on lactate.
maintain an endogenous reserve of phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), 3-phosphoglyceric acid, and 2-phosphoglyceric acid. The presence of this intracellular PEP pool has permitted the study and characterization of sugar:phosphotransferase systems (PTS; 10, 16, 31) in physiologically intact cells. In S. lactis, non-metabolizable sugar analogs, e.g., 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) and methyl-,-D-thiogalactopyranoside (TMG) (see references 20 and 42 for TMG transport by the atypical strain S. lactis 7962), are transported by mannose-PTS and lactose-PTS, respectively. The phosphorylated derivatives accumulate intracellularly to a concentration of 30 to 40 mM (36, 42) . Similarly, when starved cells are treated with iodoacetate (to inhibit glycolysis via inactivation of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase [36]), glucose 6-phosphate and galactose 6-phosphate accumulate upon incubation of the cells with glucose or galactose (37, 38) . High levels of intracellular sugar phosphates are not maintained by the cells, however, and a decline in the intracellular concentration of these derivatives occurs simultaneously with appearance of free sugar in the medium. The half-times for efflux of 2DG, TMG, and galactose from cells previously loaded with 2DG 6-phosphate (2DG-6P), TMG-6P, and galactose 6-phosphate are approximately 3, 11, and 3 min, respectively. Studies by Thompson and Saier (41) and Thompson and Chassy (39) indicated an intracellular locus for the dephosphorylation process, and additional evidence of intracellular sugar phosphate:phosphohydrolase activity in vivo was obtained from studies concerned with the bacteriostatic effect of 2DG upon S. lactis (39, 40) . Inhibition of growth was attributed to the dissipation of PEP 70
Abstract 1. 1. The interaction of dl -2-phosphoglyceric acid with Mg ++ , Mn ++ , and Zn ++ at 23 ° and μ = 0.056 has been studied. The complexes formed are shown to be of the 1:1 type. 2. 2. The dissociation constants of MgHPO 4 , MnHPO 4 , and ZnHPO 4 have been determined at 23 ° and μ = 0.056. 3. 3. The implications of the results in regard to the mechanism of enolase action are discussed.
The immediate product of the pyruvate kinase catalyzed phosphorylation of beta-hydroxypyruvate is the enol of tartronate semialdehyde phosphate (TSP). The reaction has the same pH profile as that for the phosphorylation of pyruvate with pK's of 8.2 and 9.7 observed in H2O. This enol tautomerizes in solution to the aldehyde, which in turn becomes hydrated. 31P NMR spectra indicate that the enol resonates approximately 1 ppm upfield from the hydrated aldehyde. By following the tautomerization spectrophotometrically at 240 nm, we have found it to be independent of pH (0.2 min-1 below pH 6 in water), except that it is 2-fold slower above the pK of the phosphate group (6.3 in H2O and 6.7 in D2O). It is 3.6-fold slower in D2O. When this TSP is reduced with NaBH4, approximately 50% of the product is D-2-phosphoglyceric acid (substrate for enolase). Thus, while the immediate product of the phosphorylation rection is the enol of TSP, the eventual product is D,L-TSP. Both the enol and the aldehyde forms of TSP were found to be potent inhibitors of yeast enolase with apparent Ki values of 100 nM and 5 microM, respectively. However, since the aldehyde form is 95-99% hydrated [Stubbe, J., & Abeles, R. (1980) Biochemistry 19, 5505], the true Ki for the aldehyde species is 50-250 nM. The enol of TSP shows slow binding behavior, as expected for an intermediate analogue, with a t1/2 for this process of approximately 15 s (k = 0.046 s-1) and an initial Ki of approximately 200 nM.
Publisher Summary This chapter presents a procedure for the preparation of 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2PGA). 2-PGA can be prepared by two distinct methods; in both of them 2-PGA is isolated from the mother liquor remaining after precipitation of the less-soluble acid Ba salt of 3-PGA. The compound obtained from yeast maceration juice, when sugar fermented in the presence of fluoride. Neuberg accomplished total synthesis from D-glyceric acid and metaphosphoric acid ethyl ester. Isolation of pure D-2-PGA involves alcohol precipitation, which is repeated several times until the ratio of the optical rotation of the mixture no longer increases to the fermentation value. The final precipitate is then redissolved in the calculated amount of dilute HNO 3 and any phosphopyruvic acid is destroyed by adding a few milliliters of 5 % HgCl 2 and letting the solution stand for 20 minutes at room temperature. Hg is then precipitated with H 2 S, inorganic P with Mg mixture, and the precipitates filtered off. Procedure according to Neuberg include reaction of 26.5 g. of glyceric acid and 41 g. of metaphosphoric acid, which yields D(-)-3-PGA as the chief product together with a smaller amount of D(+)-2-PGA in a ratio of about 10:1. The isolation of 2-PGA from the remaining filtrate is based on the finding 4 that the Sr salt of 3-PGA is much less soluble in hot than in cold water.
Application of the elicitor cryptogein to tobacco (cv Xanthi) is known to evoke external medium alkalinization, active oxygen species production, and phytoalexin synthesis. These are all dependent on an influx of calcium. We show here that cryptogein also induces calcium-dependent plasma membrane depolarization, chloride efflux, cytoplasm acidification, and NADPH oxidation without changes in NAD+ and ATP levels, indicating that the elicitor-activated redox system, responsible for active oxygen species production, uses NADPH in vivo. NADPH oxidation activates the functioning of the pentose phosphate pathway, leading to a decrease in glucose 6-phosphate and to the accumulation of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, 3- and 2-phosphoglyceric acid, and phosphoenolpyruvate. By inhibiting the pentose phosphate pathway, we demonstrate that the activation of the plasma membrane NADPH oxidase is responsible for active oxygen species production, external alkalinization, and acidification of the cytoplasm. A model is proposed for the organization of the cryptogein responses measured to date.
Application of the elicitor cryptogein to tobacco (cv Xanthi) is known to evoke external medium alkalinization, active oxygen species production, and phytoalexin synthesis. These are all dependent on an influx of calcium. We show here that cryptogein also induces calcium-dependent plasma membrane depolarization, chloride eff lux, cytoplasm acidification, and NADPH oxidation without changes in NAD+ and ATP levels, indicating that the elicitor-activated redox system, responsible for active oxygen species production, uses NADPH in vivo. NADPH oxidation activates the functioning of the pentose phosphate pathway, leading to a decrease in glucose 6-phosphate and to the accumulation of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, 3-and 2-phosphoglyceric acid, and phosphoenolpyruvate. By inhibiting the pentose phosphate pathway, we demonstrate that the activation of the plasma membrane NADPH oxidase is responsible for active oxygen species production, external alkalinization, and acidification of the cytoplasm. A model is proposed for the organization of the cryptogein responses measured to date.
The primary energy source for this presumptive sucrose PTS was PEP. Of other potential phosphate donors (6) examined, only 2-phosphoglyceric acid, the immediate glycolytic precursor of PEP, could stimulate sucrose PTS activity and then only in the absence of NaF. Such a result is predicted because of the wellknown inhibition of enolase of S. mutans by NaF (3).
The absolute requirement for PEP, the ability of 2-phosphoglyceric acid to partially substitute for PEP in the absence of NaF, and the absence of a fluoride effect on the observed decrease in the optical density at 340 nm in the presence of exogenous PEP are all consistent with the hypothesis that at least one mode of sucrose permeation of diverse S. mutans serotypes is group translocation mediated by a PEP-dependent PTS (4, 6). Kinetic studies for each strain indicated that the sucrose PTS in sucrose-adapted, sucrosechallenged cells exhibited classical saturation kinetics. Arrangement of such data into the Lineweaver-Burk format permitted determinations of apparent Km's for each serotype (Table   2 ). In general, for each substrate, each serotype representative possessed similar specific activities and apparent Km's, but these values were markedly different between the substrates. These data do not preclude the possibility that there may be differences in the regulatory mech- 
Abstract Metabolomics measurements of seminal plasma are widely used in diagnosis and finding of molecular mechanisms of male infertility. However, so far the limitation of metabolome coverage of analytical methods hinders comprehensive metabolite biomarker finding. Moreover, the widely used case-control comparison is not enough to unveil the detailed correlations of the metabolic changes with different sperm abnormalities. In this work, we aimed to have comprehensive metabolic profiling of seminal plasma to find the metabolomics difference between healthy controls and infertility case samples with different semen abnormities by liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC–MS) detection with previously established new sample preparation procedure. Among 624 detected metabolite features, 63 potential biomarkers in various metabolite classes were found for infertility in seminal plasma by multivariate analysis. Interestingly, different infertility forms have different potential biomarkers with few in common, and most of potential biomarkers were found in oligo-astheno-teratospermia samples. To further find the association of the metabolomic changes with specific sperm abnormality, sperm parameters including sperm concentration, sperm deformity rate and sperm motility were also collected, and multivariate linear regression was used to find correlations between sperm parameters and potential biomarkers. Finally, levels of 17 metabolites were found to be significantly correlated with sperm parameters. Most of correlations agreed with previously reported mechanisms of infertility, such as correlation of acylcarnitines with sperm concentration and sperm deformity, and correlation of some antioxidants with sperm deformity rate and sperm motility. Some correlations were reported for the first time, such as negative correlations of isopentenyl pyrophosphate, 2-phosphoglyceric acid and γ-glutamyl-Se-methylselenocysteine with sperm deformity rate, and negative correlation of creatine riboside with sperm concentration. All the potential biomarkers were involved in 14 metabolic pathways playing important role in energy production, antioxidation, hormone regulation and sperm membrane. These results proved previously reported molecular mechanism (such as oxidative stress and energy production) and also gave new possible clues to the pathology of male infertility, which will benefit future etiology, diagnosis and treatment of male infertility.
The relationships between glucose metabolism and exopolysaccharide (EPS) production in a Lactococcus lactis strain containing the EPS gene cluster (Eps(+)) and in nonproducer strain MG5267 (Eps(-)) were characterized. The concentrations of relevant phosphorylated intermediates in EPS and cell wall biosynthetic pathways or glycolysis were determined by (31)P nuclear magnetic resonance. The concentrations of two EPS precursors, UDP-glucose and UDP-galactose, were significantly lower in the Eps(+) strain than in the Eps(-) strain. The precursors of the peptidoglycan pathway, UDP-N-acetylglucosamine and UDP-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide, were the major UDP-sugar derivatives detected in the two strains examined, but the concentration of the latter was greater in the Eps(+) strain, indicating that there is competition between EPS synthesis and cell growth. An intermediate in biosynthesis of histidine and nucleotides, 5-phosphorylribose 1-pyrophosphate, accumulated at concentrations in the millimolar range, showing that the pentose phosphate pathway was operating. Fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and glucose 6-phosphate were the prominent glycolytic intermediates during exponential growth of both strains, whereas in the stationary phase the main metabolites were 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, and phosphoenolpyruvate. The activities of relevant enzymes, such as phosphoglucose isomerase, alpha-phosphoglucomutase, and UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, were identical in the two strains. (13)C enrichment on the sugar moieties of pure EPS showed that glucose 6-phosphate is the key metabolite at the branch point between glycolysis and EPS biosynthesis and ruled out involvement of the triose phosphate pool. This study provided clues for ways to enhance EPS production by genetic manipulation.
The relationships between glucose metabolism and exopolysaccharide (EPS) production in a Lactococcus lactis strain containing the EPS gene cluster (Eps ؉ ) and in nonproducer strain MG5267 (Eps ؊ ) were characterized. The concentrations of relevant phosphorylated intermediates in EPS and cell wall biosynthetic pathways or glycolysis were determined by 31 P nuclear magnetic resonance. The concentrations of two EPS precursors, UDP-glucose and UDP-galactose, were significantly lower in the Eps ؉ strain than in the Eps ؊ strain. The precursors of the peptidoglycan pathway, UDP-N-acetylglucosamine and UDP-N-acetylmuramoylpentapeptide, were the major UDP-sugar derivatives detected in the two strains examined, but the concentration of the latter was greater in the Eps ؉ strain, indicating that there is competition between EPS synthesis and cell growth. An intermediate in biosynthesis of histidine and nucleotides, 5-phosphorylribose 1-pyrophosphate, accumulated at concentrations in the millimolar range, showing that the pentose phosphate pathway was operating. Fructose 1,6-bisphosphate and glucose 6-phosphate were the prominent glycolytic intermediates during exponential growth of both strains, whereas in the stationary phase the main metabolites were 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, and phosphoenolpyruvate. The activities of relevant enzymes, such as phosphoglucose isomerase, ␣-phosphoglucomutase, and UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase, were identical in the two strains.
Phosphoglycerate mutase has been purified from methanol-grown Hyphomicrobium X and Pseudomonas AMI by acid precipitation, heat treatment, ammonium sulphate fractionation, Sephadex G-50 gel filtration and DEAE-cellulose column chromatography. The purification attained using the Hyphomicrobium X extract was 72-fold, and using the Pseudomonas AMI extract, 140-fold. The enzyme purity, as shown by analytical polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, was 50% from Hyphomicrobium X and 40% from Pseudomonas AMI. The enzyme activity was associated with one band. The purified preparations did not contain detectable amounts of phosphoglycerate kinase, phosphopyruvate hydratase, phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase or glycerate kinase activity. The molecular weight of the enzymic preparation was 32000 +/- 3000. The enzyme from both organisms was stable at low temperatures and, in the presence of 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, could withstand exposure to high temperatures. The enzyme from Pseudomonas AMI has a broad pH optimum at 7-0 to 7-6 whilst the enzyme from Hyphomicrobium X has an optimal activity at pH 7-3. The cofactor 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid was required for maximum enzyme activity and high concentrations of 2-phosphoglyceric acid were inhibitory. The Km values for the Hyphomicrobium X enzyme were: 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 6-0 X 10(-3) M: 2-phosphoglyceric acid, 6-9 X 10(-4) M; 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, 8-0 X 10(-6) M; and for the Pseudomonas AMI ENzyme: 3-4 X 10(-3) M, 3-7 X 10(-4) M and 10 X 10(-6) M respectively. The equilibrium constant for the reaction was 11-3 +/- 2-5 in the direction of 2-phosphoglyceric acid to 3-phosphoglyceric acid and 0-09 +/- 0-02 in the reverse direction. The standard free energy for the reaction proceeding from 2-phosphoglyceric acid to 3-phosphoglyceric acid was -5-84 kJ mol(-1) and in the reverse direction +5-81 kJ mol(-1).
In the presence of inorganic phosphate, uridine 5'-diphosphate glucose (UDPG) is specifically hydrolyzed to glucose 1-phosphate and UDP by a unique enzyme, UDPG phosphorylase. The activity of the enzyme was maximally stimulated by fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory metabolite recently discovered in both plants and animals, and by 2-phosphoglyceric acid. At 1 muM, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate stimulated UDPG phosphorolysis 10-fold, whereas 2-phosphoglyceric acid was required at higher concentrations (100 muM) to produce a similar effect. Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate appears to increase the affinity of the enzyme for inorganic phosphate, with a change in K(m) from 1.6 mM to 0.3 mM. The results suggest that fructose 2,6-bisphosphate participates in the regulation of other pathways of carbohydrate metabolism in addition to playing its recognized role in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis.
ABSTRACT In the presence of inorganic phosphate, uridine 5'-diphosphate glucose (UDPG) is specifically hydrolyzed to glucose 1-phosphate and UDP by a unique enzyme, UDPG phosphorylase. The activity of the enzyme was maximally stimulated by fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, a regulatory metabolite recently discovered in both plants and animals, and by 2-phosphoglyceric acid. At 1 FAM, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate stimulated UDPG phosphorolysis 10-fold, whereas 2-phosphoglyceric acid was required at higher concentrations (100 FM) to produce a similar effect. Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate appears to increase the affinity of the enzyme for inorganic phosphate, with a change in K. from 1.6 mM to 0.3 mM. The results suggest that fructose 2,6-bisphosphate participates in the regulation of other pathways of carbohydrate metabolism in addition to playing its recognized role in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis.
Abstract At neutral pH, concentrations of creatine phosphate comparable to those found in skeletal muscle and heart are highly inhibitory toward rabbit skeletal muscle pyruvate kinase. Creatine phosphate appears to be competitive with phosphoenolpyruvate with a Ki of 2.0 mm. That it is not a simple competition, however, is indicated by the following evidence. The inhibition is increased in the presence of high concentrations of ADP. ATP, a known inhibitor of pyruvate kinase, acts synergistically with creatine phosphate; that is, in the presence of both ATP and creatine phosphate the inhibition is much greater than the sum of the actions of the inhibitors separately. No synergism is seen between ATP and the inhibitory substrate analogue, 2-phosphoglyceric acid. The characteristics of the creatine phosphate effect are quite distinct from the inhibition noted previously with phenylalanine. Phenylalanine inhibition is maximal above pH 8.0 whereas creatine phosphate is more potent at neutral pH. Alanine, which reverses phenylalanine inhibition, has no effect on creatine phosphate inhibition. Phenylalanine does not inhibit the Mn2+-activated enzyme whereas creatine phosphate inhibition is more potent in the presence of manganous ion. Rabbit erythrocyte pyruvate kinase is only slightly inhibited by creatine phosphate. In the presence of the activator, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, the inhibition is much more pronounced. The results are discussed in relation to the regulation of muscle glycolysis and it is suggested that falling creatine phosphate levels may be one of the primary factors contributing to the increase in glycolytic flux that accompanies muscle contraction.
Abstract The separation of hexosephosphates and triosephosphates may be obtained by use of TLC, using a cellulose adsorbent without binder. While the hexosephosphates resolved into well-defined spots, 3-phosphoglyceric acid and 2-phosphoglyceric acid did not separate.
Abstract The characteristics of a reaction involving pyrogallol and compounds related to glyceric acid in concentrated sulfuric acid were investigated. The reaction yielded a violet chromogen which exhibited an absorption maximum at 570 mμ. Among compounds reacting to form the chromogen, the following relative rates were observed: glycolaldehyde > glyceric acid > tartaric acid > 2-phosphoglyceric acid = 3-phosphoglyceric acid > 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid. Optimal conditions for determination of monophosphoglycerates and 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid are described. Specificity is increased by preheating the glycerates in sulfuric acid before addition of pyrogallol; contributions from the more rapidly reacting nonphosphorylated compounds are thereby reduced. Glyoxylic acid reacted with pyrogallol to produce a blue chromogen with an absorption maximum near 600 mμ. The colorimetric tests could be used for determinations of from 0.05 to 0.5 μmole of the acids under the conditions described.
Entamoeba histolytica enolase (EhENO) reversibly inter­converts 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA) and phosphoenolpyruvic acid (PEP). The crystal structure of the homodimeric EhENO is presented at a resolution of 1.9 A. In the crystal structure EhENO presents as an asymmetric dimer with one active site in the open conformation and the other active site in the closed conformation. Interestingly, both active sites contain a copurified 2-PGA molecule. While the 2-PGA molecule in the closed active site closely resembles the conformation known from other enolase–2-PGA complexes, the conformation in the open active site is different. Here, 2-­PGA is shifted approximately 1.6 A away from metal ion I, most likely representing a precatalytic situation.
Soluble inorganic pyrophosphatases of five species of nonsulfur purple bacteria were investigated in respect to reaction kinetics, regulatory behavior, and other characteristics. The enzymes appear to fall into two groups with correlated properties. The pyrophosphatases of Rhodopseudomonas capsulata and R. spheroides have molecular weights of ∼60,000, are stabilized by Co2+, and exhibit simple Michaelis-Menten reaction kinetics. On the other hand, the enzymes of R. palustris, R. gelatinosa, and Rhodospirillum rubrum are larger (molecular weight ∼100,000), require Zn2+ for maintenance of catalytic activity, and show complex reaction kinetics; these pyrophosphatases are activated by free Mg2+ ions and, in the absence of the latter, are inhibited by 2-phosphoglyceric acid. The results described indicate the existence of alternative control patterns for regulation of intracellular turnover of phosphate, which is in part mediated by pyrophosphatases.
In the absence of manganese, rapidly metabolizable carbohydrates such as glucose or glycerol are not completely metabolized by Bacillus subtilis growing in a nutrient sporulation medium: 3-phosphoglyceric acid (3PGA) accumulates inside the cells, growth stops at a low cell titer, and normal sporulation remains suppressed (no prespore septa). Upon the addition of manganese, 3PGA disappears, growth resumes, and normal sporulation takes place. These effects results from a specific manganese requirement of phosphoglycerate phosphomutase which catalyzes the interconversion of 3PGA and 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2PGA). Other metal ions cannot replace manganese, for which the enzyme has an apparent Km of 0.22 mM.
Abstract Staphylococcus aureus is one of the most dreaded pathogens worldwide and emergence of notorious antibiotic resistant strains have further exacerbated the present scenario. The glycolytic enzyme, triosephosphate isomerase (TIM) is one of the cell envelope proteins of the coccus and is involved in biofilm formation. It also plays an instrumental role in adherence and invasion of the bacteria into the host cell. To structurally characterize this important enzyme and analyze it's interaction with different inhibitors, substrate and transition state analogues, the present article describes several crystal structures of SaTIM alone and in complex with different ligands: glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P), glycerol-2-phosphate (G2P), 3-phosphoglyceric acid (3PG) and 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2PG). Unique conformations of the catalytic loop 6 (L6) has been observed in the different complexes. It is found to be in “almost closed” conformation in both subunits of the structure complexed to G3P. However L6 adopts the open conformation in presence of G2P and 2PG. The preference of the conformation of the catalytic loop can be correlated with the position of the phosphate group in the ligand. Novel modes of binding have been observed for G2P and 3PG for the very first time. The triose moiety is oriented away from the catalytic residues and occupies an entirely different position in some subunits. A completely new binding site for phosphate has also been identified in the complex with 2PG which differs substantially from the conventional phosphate binding site of the ligand in the crystal structures of TIM determined so far.
1. 1. Human erythrocyte enolase (2-phospho-D-glycerate hydrolyase, EC 4.2.1.11) was purified I000-fold. ::: ::: 2. 2. The pH-optimum was at pH 6.5. The molecular weight, estimated by gel filtration, was found to be 95,000 ± 5,000. ::: ::: 3. 3. Electrophoresis on agar-agarose at pH 8.5 and 6.4 showed only one band in hemolysate as well as in purified preparations. ::: ::: 4. 4. The enzyme was stabilized by magnesium and ammonium ions. ::: ::: 5. 5. The Km values for 2-phosphoglyceric acid at pH 6.5 and pH 7.2 were found to be the same: Km, (2-phosphoglyceric acid) = 28 μM. The optimal magnesium concentration was between 1 and 5 mM. ::: ::: 6. 6. Ca2+, at physiological concentrations, inhibited the enzyme. This inhibition depends on the Mg2+ concentration. ::: ::: 7. 7. The enzyme was inhibited by fluoride. This inhibition depends on magnesium, fluoride and phosphate concentration. Moreover the F− inhibition was dependent on 2-phosphoglyceric acid concentration in a competitive way.
A procedure is described for the determination of the following 19 metabolites in 200 mg gastrocnemius muscle from guinea pig: glucose 1-phosphate and 6-phosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, dihydroxyacetone phosphate, 3-phospho- and 2-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvate, glycerol, glycerol 3-phosphate, AMP, ADP, ATP, inorganic phosphate, creatine, creatine phosphate. Bioluminometric and fluorometric techniques for mono- and dinucleotide determinations were used. In the case of fluorometric measurement for NADH, 400 mg tissue were necessary. The coefficient of variation for assays on the same sample was 0.04 for bioluminometric techniques and 0.10 for fluorometric techniques.
3-Deoxy-D-manno-octulosonate 8-phosphate (KDO8P) is the phosphorylated precursor of KDO, an essential sugar of the lipopolysaccharide of Gram negative bacteria. KDO8P is produced by a specific synthase (KDO8PS) by condensing arabinose 5-phosphate (A5P) and phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), with release of inorganic phosphate. As KDO8PS is present in bacteria and plants, but not in mammalian cells, and mutations that inactivate KDO8PS also block cell replication, KDO8PS is a promising target for the design of new antimicrobials that act by blocking lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis. Previous studies have shown that a compound mimicking an intermediate of the condensation reaction is a good ligand and a powerful inhibitor. Here we report on the crystallographic investigation of the binding to KDO8PS of new derivatives of this original inhibitor. The structures of the enzyme in complex with these compounds, and also with the PEP analogs, 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA) and Z-methyl-PEP, point to future strategies for the design of novel inhibitors of KDO8PS.
Feraudi, Gärtner, Kolb and Weicker: Determination of metabolites by bioluminescence and fluorometry 193 J. Glin. Chem. Clin. Biochem. Vol. 2l, 1983, pp. 193-197 (Received June 7/October 7, 1982) Summary: A procedure is described for the determination of the following 19 metabolites in 200 mg gastrocnemius muscle from guinea pig: glucose, glucose 1-phosphate and orphosphate, fructose 6-phosphate, fructose 1,6-bisphosphate, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, dihydroxyacetone phosphate, 3-phospho-and 2-phosphoglyceric acid, phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvate, glycerol, glycerol 3-phosphate, AMP, ADP, ATP, inorganic phosphate, creatine, creatine phosphate. Bioluminometric and fluorometric techniques for mono-and dinucleotide determinations were used. In the case of fluorometric measurement of NADH, 400 mg tissue were necessary. The coefficient of Variation for assays on the same sample was 0.04 for bioluminometric techniques and 0.10 for fluorometric techniques.
Abstract Inhibition of purified AMP-deaminase from chicken breast muscle by phosphate esters and inorganic phosphate has been investigated. When tested at a concentration of 3 mm, in the presence of 0.15 m potassium chloride, the order of effectiveness as inhibitors of deaminase activity was: 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoenolpyruvate, fructose 1,6-diphosphate, ribose 5-phosphate, β-glycerophosphate l-α-glycerophosphate, glucose 6-phosphate, glucose 1-phosphate, and fructose 1-phosphate. Inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, 3-phosphoglyceric acid, 2-phosphoenolpyruvate, and l-α-glycerophosphate was also tested in the absence of potassium chloride; the degree of inhibition was depressed. In contrast to inhibition by phosphate esters, addition of potassium chloride sharply reduced the degree of inhibition by inorganic phosphate. The effects of salts on enzyme activity and inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid have been compared. When tested at 0.15 m salt and in the presence of 95 µm 5'-AMP, the order of effectiveness as activators of enzyme activity was potassium chloride, lithium chloride, ammonium chloride, sodium chloride, rubidium chloride, cesium chloride, and tetramethylammonium chloride. Ammonium, rubidium, potassium, and sodium chlorides enhanced the level of inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid approximately 2-fold. The effect was somewhat less with tetramethylammonium chloride and was negligible with lithium chloride. The role of sulfhydryl groups in inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid, with and without sodium chloride, and their effect on catalytic activity have also been investigated. Native deaminase, as well as enzyme which had been denatured in 0.3% sodium dodecyl sulfate, was titrated with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid). It was found that six, out of a total of 26, sulfhydryl groups per mole of enzyme, can be substituted without loss of deaminase activity. Inhibition by 2,3-diphosphoglyceric acid was not altered by treatment with 5,5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid).
Escherichia coli 3-deoxy-d-manno-octulosonate 8-phosphate (KDO8-P) synthase is able to utilize the five-carbon phosphorylated monosaccharide, 2-deoxyribose 5-phosphate (2dR5P), as an alternate substrate, but not d-ribose 5-phosphate (R5P) nor the four carbon analogue d-erythrose 4-phosphate (E4P). However, E. coli KDO8-P synthase in the presence of either R5P or E4P catalyzes the rapid consumption of approximately 1 mol of PEP per active site, after which consumption of PEP slows to a negligible but measurable rate. The mechanism of this abortive utilization of PEP was investigated using [2,3-13C2]-PEP and [3-F]-PEP, and the reaction products were determined by 13C, 31P, and 19F NMR to be pyruvate, phosphate, and 2-phosphoglyceric acid (2-PGA). The formation of pyruvate and 2-PGA suggests that the reaction catalyzed by KDO8-P synthase may be initiated via a nucleophilic attack to PEP by a water molecule. In experiments in which the homologous enzyme, 3-deoxy-d-arabino-heptulosonate 7-phosphate (DAH7-P) sy...
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) accounts for 30-40% of cases of highly aggressive and heterogeneous non-Hodgkins' lymphoma. 1 Patients with DLBCL who receive chemotherapy with rituximab exhibit a 5-year overall survival rate of 60-70%. 2 Variations in the genetic and immune tumor microenvironment (TME) contribute to the heterogeneity of lymphoma. The TME plays an important role in the proliferation, angiogenesis, migration, and metastasis of tumors by promoting the secretion of growth factors, angiogenic factors, and adhesion molecules. 3 Microenvironmental cells, such as stromal cells, mesenchymal stem cells, normal T cells, monocytes/ macrophages, and follicular dendritic cells, form a specific intercellular network with cytokines and chemokines to promote tumor formation and proliferation. 4 As one of the important microenvironmental cells, macrophages originate from mononuclear phagocytic cells and are characterized on the basis of two distinct polarization states: classical activation (M1) or alternative activation (M2). The responses of macrophages to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) agonists lead to M1 polarization, which is involved in type-I helper cell (Th1) response. Macrophages also respond to IL-4, resulting in the formation of M2 phenotypes that are involved in Th2-type responses. Macrophages exhibit plasticity for different types of responses: the proinflammatory M1 phenotype expresses IL-12, tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), and nitric oxide (NO), whereas the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype expresses immunosuppressive compounds, such as IL-10, mannose receptor (CD206), and arginase 1 (Arg-1). [4] [5] [6] Specifically, there are some differences in M1 and M2 macrophages between murine and human. [7] [8] [9] For instance, NO and Arg-1 were only expressed in murine macrophages and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (PMA)-induced THP-1 macrophages, but not expressed in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages. [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Recent studies showed that tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), predominantly M2 phenotype, are involved in tumor initiation and progression and promote neoplastic transformation by releasing factors during chronic inflammation. 1, [15] [16] [17] [18] TAMs are associated with the poor clinical outcome of patients with DLBCL even under rituximab treatment. [19] [20] [21] Nevertheless, the mechanism involved in the interaction between lymphoma cells and macrophages in the TME remains unclear. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE), also called enolase 2 (ENO2), is a member of the enolase family that is expressed in neuronal and neuroendocrine cells in mammals. 22, 23 Enolase is an essential enzyme that converts 2-phosphoglyceric acid into phosphoenolpyruvate, which is involved in glycolysis. Elevated levels of NSE were also found in lymphoma. 24 Our group previously demonstrated that high serum and immunohistochemical (IHC) NSE levels are correlated with the poor prognosis of patients with DLBCL, particularly in patients with non-germinal center B cell-like lymphoma. 25, 26 Exosomes are extracellular vesicles with diameters of 30-150 nm and are secreted by intracellular lysosomal microparticles that are formed through the accumulation of multiple cysts. Exosomes act as mediators by transferring proteins and genetic contents between tumor and stromal cells. 27, 28 In cancer cells, exosomes play important roles in intercellular communication and promote the M2-like functional polarization of TAMs. 29 However, the mechanism underlying the overexpression and biological characteristics of NSE in DLBCL remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the association between DLBCL-excreted NSE and macrophage differentiation in the TME.
The approach rests on the fact that hydrogen bound to carbon 5 of glucose formed via gluconeogenesis, in the conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate to 2-phosphoglyceric acid, has water as its source. Furthermore, when glycerol is converted to glucose, carbon 5 of the glucose is from carbon 2 of glyceraldehyde-3-P (Fig. 1) . Hydrogen from water is transferred to that carbon in the isomerization of dihydroxyacetone-3-P from the glycerol with glyceraldehyde-3-P, and that isomerization is extensive (3). In glycogenolysis there is no exchange with water of the hydrogen bound to carbon 5 of the glucose formed. Thus, the ratio of enrichment at carbon 5 of glucose to that at carbon 2, or in water at steady state, is a direct measure of the fraction of glucose formed by gluconeogenesis.
