In Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26, LinD and LinE activities, which are responsible for the degradation of gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane, are inducibly expressed in the presence of their substrates, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ) and chlorohydroquinone (CHQ). The nucleotide sequence of the 1-kb upstream region of the linE gene was determined, and an open reading frame (ORF) was found in divergent orientation from linE. Because the putative protein product of the ORF showed similarity to the LysR-type transcriptional regulator (LTTR) family, we named it linR. The fragment containing the putative LTTR recognition sequence (a palindromic TN(11)A sequence), which exists immediately upstream of linE, was ligated with the reporter gene lacZ and was inserted into the plasmid expressing LinR under the control of the lac promoter. When the resultant plasmid was introduced into Escherichia coli, the LacZ activity rose in the presence of 2,5-DCHQ and CHQ. RNA slot blot analysis for the total RNAs of UT26 and UT102, which has an insertional mutation in linR, revealed that the expression of the linD and linE genes was induced in the presence of 2,5-DCHQ, CHQ, and hydroquinone in UT26 but not in UT102. These results indicated that the linR gene is directly involved in the inducible expression of the linD and linE genes.
Key words: biodegradation; insertion sequence; Tn5 mutagenesis; Sphingomonas; -hexachlorocyclohexane -Hexachlorocyclohexane (-HCH, also called -BHC or lindane) is a haloorganic insecticide that has been used worldwide. Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26 utilizes -HCH as its sole source of carbon and energy. In our previous studies, we isolated and characterized six genes (linA, linB, linC, linD, linE, and linR) that are involved in the degradation of -HCH in UT26 1-6) ( Fig. 1 ). In the upstream pathway, -HCH is degraded to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ) by LinA, LinB, and LinC. In the downstream pathway, 2,5-DCHQ is further degraded by glutathione-dependent 2,5-DCHQ reductive dehalogenase, LinD, 4) and chlorohydroquinone 1,2-dioxygenase, LinE.
Kinetics of oxygen consumption, reaction product formation, and chemiluminescence during polyphenol oxidation by molecular oxygen in alkaline aqueous media with additions of l-ascorbic acid (AscH2) and homocysteine (HCys) has been investigated. In these processes, AscH2 and HCys have been shown to act as typical radical-reaction inhibitors that can be used for determinations of the radical formation rates. The rates of radical formation during oxidation of hydroquinone (p-QH2), chlorohydroquinone (Cl-QH2), 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5Cl-QH2), catechol (PK), 4-methylcatechol (4CH3-PK), pyrogallol (PG), gallic acid (GK) have been estimated. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J Chem Kinet 44: 414–422, 2012
Pseudomonas cepacia strain AC1100 has been isolated and reported to utilize 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5 T) as sole carbon and energy source Metabolites from the 2,4,5-T degradation pathway were tested for their mutagenicity in the Salmonella reversion bioassay and genotoxicity in the prophage-induction bioassay The parental compound (2,4,5-T) and three reported metabolites (2,4,5 trichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, and 2-chlorosuccinate) were negative with and without metabolic activation in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, TA100, TA102, and TA104 Conversely, 2,4,5-T and 2,4,5 trichlorophenol were positive in the prophage-induction bioassay with added S9 2,4,5-Trichlorophenol was approximately 100 fold more genotoxic than 2,4,5-T 2,5-Dichlorohydroquinone was a weak direct-acting genotoxicant in this assay In order to determine if strain AC1100 eliminated genotoxicity, 2,4,5 T medium was inoculated and the genotoxicity and the amount of 2,4,5-T remaining were examined over the growth period As cell numbers increased, the percentage of 2,4,5-T remaining in the medium decreased This decrease coincided with a decrease in genotoxicity in the prophage-induction bioassay No mutagenic response was observed in the Salmonella reversion assay
A new approach is suggested for determining the kinetic parameters and rate constants of the elementary steps of reversible chain reactions having self-acceleration periods due to the long time required for the concentrations of the chain-carrier radicals to reach their steady-state values. This approach is illustrated by the example of the reversible chain reaction between N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinonediimine and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone in chlorobenzene. The disappearance rate of one of the initial reactants, N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinonediimine, at the inflection point of its disappearance curve, is considered as the basic kinetic characteristic of the reaction. The empirical function y = aexp(bt c ) + d, where a, b, c, and d are the fitted parameters (b 1), is suggested for approximating the S-shaped kinetic curves and for calculating the reaction rate. The rate constants of the elementary steps are preferably derived from experimental data obtained at equal concentrations of the initial reactants, and also product additions when their effect on the reaction rate is studied. The effective rate constant of chain termination is derived from the time to reach the steady state. The results obtained in this way are compared with earlier data obtained using the “initial” reaction rates calculated by means of exponential approximation of portions of N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinonediimine disappearance curves after the inflection point.
To screen a wide variety of chemicals for endocrine disrupters, and to develop an effective microbial degradation system for them, a good system is needed for the rapid and accurate evaluation of the endocrine-disrupting activities of suspected chemicals and their degradation products. We constructed two-hybrid systems that co-express the Gal4p DNA binding domain/ligand-binding domain of human estrogen receptor (hER) a or β and the Gal4p transactivation domain/nuclear receptor-binding domain of co-activator SRC1, TIF2, or AIB1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae with a chromosome-integrated lacZ reporter gene under the control of Gal4p-binding sites. We found that the combination of the hERβ ligand-binding domain and SRC1 nuclear receptor-binding domain was most effective for the xenoestrogen-dependent induction of reporter activity. The extent of transcriptional activation by known xenoestrogens and phytoestrogens was found to correlate well with their estrogenic activities as measured by the previous system with rat ERa. This system detects estrogenic activity in some chemicals that have not been suspected of being positive. We also applied this assay system to test the microbial degradation products of γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) by Sphingomonas paucimobilis. Among the γ-HCH metabolites, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone and chlorohydroquinone had estrogenic activities similar to the original chemical, while hydroquinone, a later stage metabolite, showed no activity, suggesting the necessity of evaluating intermediate metabolites in microbial degradation systems.
The synthesis and degradation of anthropogenic and natural organohalides are the basis of a global halogen cycle. Chlorinated hydroquinone metabolites (CHMs) synthesized by basidiomycete fungi and present in wetland and forest soil are constituents of that cycle. Anaerobic dehalogenating bacteria coexist with basidiomycete fungi in soils and sediments, but little is known about the fate of these halogenated fungal compounds. In sediment microcosms, the CHMs 2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-1,4-dimethoxybenzene and 2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-4-methoxyphenol (TCMP) were anaerobically demethylated to tetrachlorohydroquinone (TCHQ). Subsequently, TCHQ was converted to trichlorohydroquinone and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ) in freshwater and estuarine enrichment cultures. Screening of several dehalogenating bacteria revealed that Desulfitobacterium hafniense strains DCB2 and PCP1, Desulfitobacterium chlororespirans strain Co23, and Desulfitobacterium dehalogenans JW/DU1 sequentially dechlorinate TCMP to 2,3,5-trichloro-4-methoxyphenol and 3,5-dichloro-4-methoxyphenol (3,5-DCMP). After a lag, these strains demethylate 3,5-DCMP to 2,6-DCHQ, which is then completely dechlorinated to 1,4-dihydroquinone (HQ). 2,5-DCHQ accumulated as an intermediate during the dechlorination of TCHQ to HQ by the TCMP-degrading desulfitobacteria. HQ accumulation following TCMP or TCHQ dechlorination was transient and became undetectable after 14 days, which suggests mineralization of the fungal compounds. This is the first report on the anaerobic degradation of fungal CHMs, and it establishes a fundamental role for microbial reductive degradation of natural organochlorides in the global halogen cycle.
The synthesis and degradation of anthropogenic and natural organohalides are the basis of a global halogen cycle. Chlorinated hydroquinone metabolites (CHMs) synthesized by basidiomycete fungi and present in wetland and forest soil are constituents of that cycle. Anaerobic dehalogenating bacteria coexist with basidiomycete fungi in soils and sediments, but little is known about the fate of these halogenated fungal compounds. In sediment microcosms, the CHMs 2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-1,4-dimethoxybenzene and 2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-4-methoxyphenol (TCMP) were anaerobically demethylated to tetrachlorohydroquinone (TCHQ). Subsequently, TCHQ was converted to trichlorohydroquinone and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ) in freshwater and estuarine enrichment cultures. Screening of several dehalogenating bacteria revealed that Desulfitobacterium hafniense strains DCB2 and PCP1, Desulfitobacterium chlororespirans strain Co23, and Desulfitobacterium dehalogenans JW/DU1 sequentially dechlorinate TCMP to 2,3,5-trichloro-4-methoxyphenol and 3,5-dichloro-4-methoxyphenol (3,5-DCMP). After a lag, these strains demethylate 3,5-DCMP to 2,6-DCHQ, which is then completely dechlorinated to 1,4-dihydroquinone (HQ). 2,5-DCHQ accumulated as an intermediate during the dechlorination of TCHQ to HQ by the TCMP-degrading desulfitobacteria. HQ accumulation following TCMP or TCHQ dechlorination was transient and became undetectable after 14 days, which suggests mineralization of the fungal compounds. This is the first report on the anaerobic degradation of fungal CHMs, and it establishes a fundamental role for microbial reductive degradation of natural organochlorides in the global halogen cycle.
Abstract The degradation of chlorinated organic compound (2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,4,5-TCP) in Electro-Fe(II)/Oxone® system simultaneously exposed to UV (254 nm) irradiation (i.e., EFOU) was investigated in this study. In this oxidation process, once an electric current is applied between the anode (an iron sheet) and the cathode (a graphite bar), a predetermined amount of Oxone® is added to the reactor and UV light is simultaneously irradiated. It was found that an acidic condition is favorable to the process and over 92% removal of 0.2 mM 2,4,5-TCP in the pH range of 2.5–4.35 was rapidly obtained by the proposed EFOU process. Nevertheless, around 80% of 2,4,5-TCP was decayed at pH of 7.70 in 20 min suggesting that the proposed EFOU process is efficient even at neutral pH. Experimental results show that applied current of 1 mA results in the best performance, while the process is slightly inhibited at higher currents due to excessive generation of ferrous ions. The investigation on the mode of current-application shows that the EFOU process can be further optimized by controlling a proper electrolytic duration to reach a balance of Fe(II) generation and energy consumption. Additionally, it is found that tandem addition of Oxone® could minimize the scavenging effect between the radicals (from the first dose) and fresh Oxone® (from the second dose) and improve the overall performance of EFOU. Furthermore, aromatic intermediates such as 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 4,6-dichlororesorcinol, 2,4-chlorophenol, and many others are identified by using LC–ESI/MS analysis, based on which a possible decay pathway of 2,4,5-TCP by EFOU process is therefore proposed.
In Pseudomonas paucimobilis UT26, gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH) is converted to 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol (2,5-DDOL), which is then metabolized to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone. Here, we isolated from the genomic library of UT26 two genes which expressed 2,5-DDOL dehydrogenase activity when they were transformed into P. putida and Escherichia coli. Both gene products had an apparent molecular size of 28 kDa by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The first gene, named linC, located separately from the two genes (linA and linB) which we had already cloned as genes involved in the gamma-HCH degradation. The other, named linX, located about 1 kb upstream of the linA gene encoding gamma-HCH dehydrochlorinase. A gamma-HCH degradation-negative mutant, named UT72, which lacked the whole linC gene but had the intact linX gene was isolated. The linC gene given in a plasmid could complement UT72. These results strongly suggest that the linC gene but not the linX gene is essential for the assimilation of gamma-HCH in UT26. Deduced amino acid sequences of LinC and LinX show homology to those of members of the short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase family.
gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH; also called BHC or lindane) is one of the highly chlorinated pesticides which can cause serious environmental problems. Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26 degrades gamma-HCH under aerobic conditions. The unique degradation pathway of gamma-HCH in UT26 is revealed. In the upstream pathway, gamma-HCH is transformed to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ) by two different dehalogenases (LinA and LinB) and one dehydrogenase (LinC) which are expressed constitutively. In the downstream pathway, 2,5-DCHQ is reductively dehalogenated, and then ring-cleaved by enzymes (LinD and LinE, respectively) whose expressions are regulated. We have cloned and sequenced five structural genes (linA, linB, linC, linD, and linE) directly involved in this degradation pathway. The linD and linE genes form an operon, and its expression is positively regulated by the LysR-type transcriptional regulator (LinR). The genes linA, linB, and linC are constitutively expressed, and are present separately from each other in the UT26 genome. Cell fractionation analysis, Western blotting, and immuno electron microscopy revealed that LinA and LinB are localized in the periplasmic space of UT26.
The herbicide dicamba is initially demethylated to 3,6-dichlorosalicylate (3,6-DCSA) in Rhizorhabdus dicambivorans Ndbn-20 and is subsequently 5-hydroxylated to 3,6-dichlorogentisate (3,6-DCGA). In the present study, two glutathione-dependent 3,6-DCGA dehalogenases, DsmH1 and DsmH2, were identified in strain Ndbn-20. DsmH2 shared a low identity (only 31%) with the tetrachlorohydroquinone (TCHQ) dehalogenase PcpC from Sphingobium chlorophenolicum ATCC 39723, while DsmH1 shared a high identity (79%) with PcpC. In the phylogenetic tree of related glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), DsmH1 and DsmH2, together with PcpC and the 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone dehalogenase LinD, formed a separate clade. DsmH1 and DsmH2 were synthesized in Escherichia coli BL21 and purified as His-tagged enzymes. Both enzymes required glutathione (GSH) as a cofactor and could 6-dechlorinate 3,6-DCGA to 3-chlorogentisate in vitro DsmH2 had a significantly higher catalytic efficiency toward 3,6-DCGA than DsmH1. Transcription and disruption analysis revealed that DsmH2 but not DsmH1 was responsible for the 6-dechlorination of 3,6-DCGA in strain Ndbn-20 in vivo Furthermore, we propose a novel eta class of GSTs to accommodate the four bacterial dehalogenases PcpC, LinD, DsmH1, and DsmH2.IMPORTANCE Dicamba is an important herbicide, and its use and leakage into the environment have dramatically increased since the large-scale planting of genetically modified (GM) dicamba-resistant crops in 2015. However, the complete catabolic pathway of dicamba has remained unknown, which limits ecotoxicological studies of this herbicide. Our previous study revealed that 3,6-DCGA was an intermediate of dicamba degradation in strain Ndbn-20. In this study, we identified two glutathione-dependent 3,6-DCGA dehalogenases, DsmH1 and DsmH2, and demonstrated that DsmH2 is physiologically responsible for the 6-dechlorination of 3,6-DCGA in strain Ndbn-20. GSTs play an important role in the detoxification and degradation of a variety of endogenous and exogenous toxic compounds. On the basis of their sequence identities, phylogenetic status, and functions, the four bacterial GSH-dependent dehalogenases (PcpC, LinD, DsmH1, and DsmH2) were reclassified as a new eta class of GSTs. This study helps us to elucidate the microbial catabolism of dicamba and enhances our understanding of the diversity and functions of GSTs.
Abstract The mineralization of acidic aqueous solutions of the herbicide 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) in 0.05 M Na 2 SO 4 +H 2 SO 4 at 35 °C has been studied by different electrochemical methods. Photoelectro-Fenton treatment yields a fast and complete depollution of solutions with 2,4,5-T concentrations up to about saturation within the pH range 2.0–4.0, operating at low current and with 1 mM Fe 2+ . This method is carried out in an undivided cell with a Pt anode and an O 2 -diffusion cathode under UV irradiation, and its great oxidative ability is due to the fast reaction of organics with the high concentration of oxidizing hydroxyl radicals produced in the medium from Fenton's reaction between added Fe 2+ and H 2 O 2 electrogenerated by the cathode. Comparative treatment by an electro-Fenton reaction only leads to 60–65% of mineralization because of the formation of hardly oxidable products with hydroxyl radical. 2,4,5-T is very poorly mineralized by anodic oxidation in the absence and presence of electrogenerated H 2 O 2 . The herbicide decay always follows a pseudo first-order reaction. 2,4,5-Trichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 4,6-dichlororesorcinol and 2,5-dihydroxy- p -benzoquinone have been identified and quantified as aromatic products by reverse-phase chromatography. Generated carboxylic acids such as glycolic, glyoxylic, formic, malic, maleic, fumaric and oxalic have been detected and followed by ion-exclusion chromatography. All these products are destroyed by electro-Fenton treatment, except oxalic acid which forms stable complexes with Fe 3+ . These complexes are rapidly photodecarboxylated by UV light in the photoelectro-Fenton treatment.
The kinetics of the reactions of the diphenylaminyl radical with unhindered phenols and hydroquinones in acetonitrile at 294 K was studied by laser flash photolysis. The rate constants k range from 104 to 106 L mol−1 s−1 and depend on the nature of substituents in phenols and hydroquinones. The k values also depend on the solvent nature and decrease by 6.5 and 50 times, on the average, when decane is replaced by toluene and acetonitrile, respectively. The logk values in decane, toluene, and acetonitrile depend linearly on the dissociation energies D OH of OH bonds in phenols and hydroquinones. Taking into account this dependence and using the experimental k value in acetonitrile, the estimate D OH = 346.6 kJ mol−1 was obtained for 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone. The thermodynamic parameters of formation of H-bonded complexes of phenols and hydroquinones with toluene and acetonitrile were calculated in the framework of the multiplicative approach to thermodynamic description of H-bonding. The rate constants k (free) of the reactions of the diphenylaminyl radical with free phenols and hydroquinones in toluene and acetonitrile were estimated. Comparison of the k (free) values with each other and experimental k values in decane suggests that the changes in k upon solvent replacement is mainly caused by the formation of H-complexes of phenols and hydroquinones with the solvent.
Abstract The stability of the chloroneb fungicide (1,4-dichloro-2,5-dimethoxybenzene) and its principal degradation product, 2,5-dichloro-4-methoxyphenol (DCMP), was tested in the presence of individual soil microorganisms. Both the fungicide and DCMP were unaltered in liquid shake cultures of the organisms when growth was minimal or static. However, in nutrient broth where active microbial growth was supported, several organisms converted chloroneb to DCMP and/or DCMP to chloroneb. Of 23 organisms grown in the presence of 5 μg chloroneb/ml, 13 demethylated the fungicide to produce DCMP. Liquid shake cultures of Fusarium spp. were most active in this respect, converting more than 50% of the chloroneb to DCMP in 5 days. When grown in the presence of 5 μg DCMP/ml, 8 organisms, especially Trichoderma viride and Mucor ramannianus , converted up to 20% of the DCMP to chloroneb. Cephalosporium gramineum, Rhizoctonia solani, Mucor ramannianus and Fusarium fungi could both methylate and demethylate DCMP to produce chloroneb and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, respectively. Microbial synthesis of chloroneb from DCMP, its principal degradation product, may account in part for the relative stability and long term effectiveness of the fungicide in soil.
The growth of a gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH)-degrading bacterium Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 in rich medium was inhibited by gamma-HCH. This growth inhibition was not observed in a mutant that lacked the initial or second step enzymatic activity for gamma-HCH degradation, suggesting that metabolites of gamma-HCH are toxic to UT26. Two metabolites of gamma-HCH, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ), showed a direct toxic effect on UT26 and other sphingomonad strains. Because only 2,5-DCP accumulated during gamma-HCH degradation, 2,5-DCP is thought to be a main compound for growth inhibition.
1. The metabolism of 1,4-dichlorobenzene has been studied in the male and female Fisher 344 rat over 72 h after oral administration of 14C-1,4-dichlorobenzene (900 mg = 96.8 microCi/kg). No covalent binding of radioactivity could be detected in samples of liver, kidney, lung and spleen. The major route of excretion was with urine accounting for 41.3% of the dose for male and 37.8% of the dose for female rat within 72 h after dosing. 2. Urinary metabolites of 1,4-dichlorobenzene were identified and quantified. The major metabolites identified in the urine of both the male and female rat, were the sulphate and glucuronide of 2,5-dichlorophenol. Minor amounts of 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone were excreted as an unidentified conjugate. 3. 2-(N-acetyl-cysteine-S-yl)-1,4-dichlorobenzene and 2-(N-acetyl-cysteine-S-yl)-2,3-dihydro-3-hydroxy-1,3-hydroxy-1,4-dich lorobenzen e were minor metabolites excreted in the urine of both sexes. 4. A novel biotransformation pathway for 1,4-dichlorobenzene may be postulated, leading to the urinary excretion of a mercapturic acid of chlorophenol. 5. No marked differences in the distribution and excretion of metabolites of 1,4-dichlorobenzene were observed between the male and female Fisher 344 rat.
Sphingomonas (formerly Pseudomonas) paucimobilis UT26 utilizes gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH), a halogenated organic insecticide, as a sole carbon and energy source. In a previous study, we showed that gamma-HCH is degraded to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ) (Y. Nagata, R. Ohtomo, K. Miyauchi, M. Fukuda, K. Yano, and M. Takagi, J. Bacteriol. 176:3117-3125, 1994). In the present study, we cloned and characterized a gene, designated linD, directly involved in the degradation of 2,5-DCHQ. The linD gene encodes a peptide of 343 amino acids and has a low level of similarity to proteins which belong to the glutathione S-transferase family. When LinD was overproduced in Escherichia coli, a 40-kDa protein was found after sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Northern blot analysis revealed that expression of the linD gene was induced by 2,5-DCHQ in S. paucimobilis UT26. Thin-layer chromatography and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses with the LinD-overexpressing E. coli cells revealed that LinD converts 2,5-DCHQ rapidly to chlorohydroquinone (CHQ) and also converts CHQ slowly to hydroquinone. LinD activity in crude cell extracts was increased 3.7-fold by the addition of glutathione. All three of the Tn5-induced mutants of UT26, which lack 2,5-DCHQ dehalogenase activity, had rearrangements or a deletion in the linD region. These results indicate that LinD is a glutathione-dependent reductive dehalogenase involved in the degradation of gamma-HCH by S. paucimobilis UT26.
The kinetics of the reversible chain reaction between N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinonediimine and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone was studied in chlorobenzene at 298 and 343 K. Experiments in the presence of an initiator proved that the reaction proceeds via a chain mechanism with a chain length of ∼104 to 105 units, depending on the reactant and initiator concentrations and temperature. The reaction rate first increases and then decreases with increasing concentrations of the reaction products (N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-phenylenediamine and 2,5-dichloroquinone) due to the pronounced reversibility of the chain termination and propagation steps involving the reaction products. The reaction orders with respect to the components were determined. The rate constants and activation energies of most of the elementary steps of the forward and backward chain reactions were determined or reliably estimated. Induction periods were observed for the first time in the reversible chain reactions in the quinoneimine + hydroquinone systems. The induction periods are due to the long time required for the establishment of the steady-state radical concentrations in the system.
Abstract Electrochemical oxidation of 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) over metal-oxide-coated Ti anodes, i.e., Ti/SnO 2 –Sb/Ce–PbO 2 , Ti/SnO 2 –Sb and Ti/RuO 2 , was examined. The degradation efficiency of over 90% was attained at 20 min at different initial concentrations (0.5–20 mg L −1 ) and initial pH values (3.1–11.2). The degradation efficiencies of 2,4,5-T on Ti/SnO 2 –Sb/Ce–PbO 2 , Ti/SnO 2 –Sb and Ti/RuO 2 anodes were higher than 99.9%, 97.2% and 91.5% at 30 min, respectively, and the respective total organic carbon removal ratios were 65.7%, 54.6% and 37.2%. The electrochemical degradation of 2,4,5-T in aqueous solution followed pseudo-first-order kinetics. The compounds, i.e., 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone and 2,5-dihydroxy- p -benzoquinone, have been identified as the main aromatic intermediates by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The results showed that the energy efficiencies of 2,4,5-T (20 mg L −1 ) degradation with Ti/SnO 2 –Sb/Ce–PbO 2 anode at the optimal current densities from 2 to 16 mA cm −2 ranged from 8.21 to 18.73 kW h m −3 .
The paper presents the results obtained in a study of the kinetics of the reversible chain reaction between 2,5-dichloroquinone and 4-hydroxydiphenylamine (Keq = 3.2). We studied the dependence of the reaction rate on the concentrations of the initiator, initial reagents, and all products. The equations obtained earlier for the rate of reversible chain reactions and the method of equal concentrations suggested in this work were used to estimate the rate constants of most of the reaction mechanism elementary steps from the experimental data. The results obtained were shown to closely agree with and agument the data obtained earlier for the kinetics of the chain reaction between N-phenyl-1,4-benzoquinonemonoimine and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone. On the whole, all the elementary steps of these two (forward and back) reversible chain reactions were characterized by rate constant values.
γ-Hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH, also called γ-BHC and lindane) is a halogenated organic insecticide that causes serious environmental problems. The aerobic degradation pathway of γ-HCH was extensively revealed in bacterial strain Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26. γ-HCH is transformed to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone through sequential reactions catalyzed by LinA, LinB, and LinC, and then 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone is further metabolized by LinD, LinE, LinF, LinGH, and LinJ to succinyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA, which are metabolized in the citrate/tricarboxylic acid cycle. In addition to these catalytic enzymes, a putative ABC-type transporter system encoded by linKLMN is also essential for the γ-HCH utilization in UT26. Preliminary examination of the complete genome sequence of UT26 clearly demonstrated that lin genes for the γ-HCH utilization are dispersed on three large circular replicons with sizes of 3.5 Mb, 682 kb, and 191 kb. Nearly identical lin genes were also found in other HCH-degrading bacterial strains, and it has been suggested that the distribution of lin genes is mainly mediated by insertion sequence IS6100 and plasmids. Recently, it was revealed that two dehalogenases, LinA and LinB, have variants with small number of amino acid differences, and they showed dramatic functional differences for the degradation of HCH isomers, indicating these enzymes are still evolving at high speed.
A kinetic study was made of the reactions of diphenyldiazomethane (DDM) with chloranil and 2,5-dichloro-p-benzoquinone (DCQ) at 30 °C in 20 and 22 aprotic solvents respectively (19 solvents are common). The chloranil reaction gave poly(tetrachlorohydroquinone benzhydryl ether) alone, obeying the second-order kinetic law. On the other hand, the DCQ reaction afforded bicyclic dione and poly(2,5-dichlorohydroquinone benzhydryl ether), also obeying the second-order kinetic law. All these rate constants generally increased with the solvent polarity and decreased with the solvent basicity. The kinetic solvent effects can be interpreted in terms of the effects of the polarity and the basicity of the solvents respectively to the transition and to the initial states. Thus, the multiple liner correlations of the logarithmic rate constants with a suitable function of the polarity and the basicity of the solvents are fairly successful. It was found that the basicity is more pronounced in the chloranil reaction than i...
Abstract Acidic aqueous solutions with 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4,5-T) concentrations up to 270 ppm in the pH range 2.0–6.0 at 35 °C can be rapidly degraded by peroxi-coagulation using an Fe anode and an O 2 -diffusion cathode. 2,4,5-T and its products are then efficiently oxidized with OH radicals produced from Fenton's reaction between Fe 2+ and H 2 O 2 generated by the electrodes. Under pH regulation at low currents, more than 90% of organics are destroyed at pH 3.0, although its optimum pH is 4.0. Higher degradations are reached without pH regulation. Solutions with 2,4,5-T concentration ≤200 ppm are more rapidly depolluted under UV irradiation, because of the production of more OH from photo-Fenton reaction. Coagulation of products with the Fe(OH) 3 precipitate formed predominates when pH is regulated to 2.0 and 3.0 in the absence of UV light, whereas parallel mineralization is favored without pH regulation and under UV irradiation. The 2,4,5-T decay follows a pseudo first-order reaction, with the same rate constant in the presence and absence of UV light. 2,4,5-trichlorophenol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 4,6-dichlororesorcinol and 2,5-dihydroxy- p -benzoquinone have been identified and quantified as aromatic intermediates by reverse-phase chromatography. Chloride ions are released from the oxidation of these chlorinated products. The evolution of generated carboxylic acids, such as glycolic, glyoxylic, formic, malic, maleic, fumaric and oxalic, has been followed by ion-exclusion chromatography. The great stability of oxalic acid and its complexes with Fe 3+ at pH regulated to 3.0 can explain that concentrated solutions can not be completely degraded.
Studies on the metabolism of p-DCB in vivo and in vitro have revealed that 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (DCHQ) is one of the major metabolites of p-DCB in rodents (11-13). Oxidation of DCHQ to 2,5-dichloro-p-benzoquinone (DCBQ) can occur enzymatically (14) . Several studies indicate that NADH may react non-enzymatically with some quinones and mediate their reduction (15) . Therefore, it is of interest to clarify whether NADH plays an important role in non-enzymatic activation of p-DCB metabolites and causes metal-dependent DNA damage. In this study, we examined DNA damage by DCHQ and DCBQ plus NADH in the presence of Cu(II) using 32 P-5'-end-labeled DNA fragments obtained from a protooncogene (c-Ha-ros-1). We also analyzed 8-oxodG formation in calf thymus DNA using an electrochemical detector coupled to an HPLC (HPLC-ECD) and investigated the reaction mechanism by UV-visible and electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy.
The temperature dependences of the equilibrium constants of two chain reversible reactions in quinonediimine (quinonemonoimine)—2,5-dichlorohydroquinone systems in chlorobenzene were studied. The enthalpy of equilibrium of the reversible reaction of quinonediimine with 4-hydroxydiphenylamine was estimated from these data (ΔH = − 14.4±1.6 kJ mol−1) and a more accurate value of the N-H bond dissociation energy in the 4-anilinodiphenylaminyl radical was determined (D NH = 278.6±3.0 kJ mol−1). A chain mechanism was proposed for the reaction between quinonediimine and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, and the chain length was estimated (ν = 300 units) at room temperature. Processing of published data on the rate constant of the reaction of styrylperoxy radicals with 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone in the framework of the intersecting parabolas method gave the O-H bond dissociation energy in 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone: D OH = 362.4±0.9 kJ mol−1. Taking into account these data, the O-H bond dissociation energy in the 2,5-dichlorosemiquinone radical was found: D OH = 253.6±1.9 kJ mol−1.
Abstract The γ-radiation-induced oxidation of 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone in aqueous solution has been investigated. The products are hydrogen peroxide and 2,5-dichlo- p -benzoquinone. The yields are pH dependent and G (2,5-dichloro- p -benzoquinone) decreases to almost zero at pH>2. The reaction mechanism is shown to be much more complex than the simple scheme originally proposed.
Abstract The gene cassette encoding for TftAB and TftCD proteins was integrated into the 16srDNA gene of the γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) mineralizing strain Sphingobium sp. BHC-A by homologous recombination. The recombinant γ-HCH mineralizing strain may degrade 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid at a rate of 250 nmol mg [protein] −1 h −1 , and the generated intermediate 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone may be further mineralized through γ-HCH downstream degradation pathway.
SUMMARY ::: ::: Forty quinones, polyhydroxybenzenes and related compounds were tested for possible control of potato common scab, caused by Streptomyces scabies. They were incorporated, at 50 μg/g or less, into scab-infected soil in which potato plants were then grown in the glasshouse. Quintozene at 50/μ g/g was used as standard. ::: ::: ::: ::: The chemicals varied very widely in their effects on scab, and in their phytotoxicity, as measured by decrease in yield of tubers. ::: ::: ::: ::: Corresponding 1,4-benzoquinones and hydroquinones behaved similarly. The unsubstituted and the phenyl-, chloro-,2,5- and 2,6-dichloro-com-pounds were as effective as quintozene; with the exception of chloro-hydroquinone, they did not decrease yield. Chloranil and chloroneb (the dimethylether of 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone) were much less effective, and chloroneb decreased yield as well. ::: ::: ::: ::: 4-terf-butyl catechol was more effective than any other compound tested, including quintozene, and at suitable rates (25 or 12-5 μg/g) did not decrease yield. ::: ::: ::: ::: Other hydroxybenzenes and some 1,4-naphthaquinones (including dichlone) and anthraquinones were almost ineffective.
A γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacterium, Sphingomonas sp. MM-1, was isolated from soil contaminated with HCH isomers. Cultivation of MM-1 in the presence of γ-HCH led to the detection of five γ-HCH metabolites, γ-pentachlorocyclohexene, 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, strongly suggesting that MM-1 has the lin genes for γ-HCH degradation originally identified in the well-studied γ-HCH-degrading strain Sphingobium japonicum UT26. Southern blot, PCR amplification, and sequencing analyses indicated that MM-1 has seven lin genes for the conversion of γ-HCH to β-ketoadipate (six structural genes, linA to linF, and one regulatory gene, linR). MM-1 carried four plasmids, of 200, 50, 40, and 30 kb. Southern blot analysis revealed that all seven lin genes were dispersed across three of the four plasmids, and that IS6100, often found close to the lin genes, was present on all four plasmids.
A -hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacterium, Sphingomonas sp. MM-1, was isolated from soil contaminated with HCH isomers. Cultivation of MM-1 in the presence of -HCH led to the detection of five -HCH metabolites, -pentachlorocyclohexene, 2,5-dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, and 2,5-dichlorophenol, strongly suggesting that MM-1 has the lin genes for -HCH degradation originally identified in the wellstudied -HCH-degrading strain Sphingobium japonicum UT26. Southern blot, PCR amplification, and sequencing analyses indicated that MM-1 has seven lin genes for the conversion of -HCH to -ketoadipate (six structural genes, linA to linF, and one regulatory gene, linR). MM-1 carried four plasmids, of 200, 50, 40, and 30 kb. Southern blot analysis revealed that all seven lin genes were dispersed across three of the four plasmids, and that IS6100, often found close to the lin genes, was present on all four plasmids.
Abstract 14 CO 2 was evolved from 14 C-γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) at a rate of 9.3% of the applied 14 C during 4-days aerobical incubation with Pseudomonas paucimobilis UT26(UT26). 2,5-Dichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-diol (2,5-DDOL) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone(2,5-DCHQ) were newly identified as aerobic degradation products of γ-HCH. It was elucidated that 2,5-DDOL was degraded to 2,5-DCHQ, which was further degraded to mineralization. 2,5-DDOL was considered to be produced through unidentified intermediates, 1,3,4,6-tetrachlorocyclohexa-1,4-diene(1,4-TCDN) and 2,4,5-trichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1-ol(2,4,5-DNOL), by two steps of dechlorinative hydroxylation. These results indicated that UT26 mineralized γ-HCH to CO 2 via 1,4-TCDN, 2,4,5-DNOL, 2,5-DDOL and 2,5-DCHQ. The aerobical mineralization of γ-HCH by UT26 is considered to be very noticeable from a viewpoint of bioremediation of the contaminated environment.
Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26 uses γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) as a sole source of carbon and energy. In UT26, γ-HCH is converted to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ). To clone a gene that is involved in the degradation of 2,5-DCHQ, a Tn5 mutation was introduced into UT26, and three mutants (UT102, UT103, and UT116) defective in 2,5-DCHQ degradation were visually selected by spraying γ-HCH solution on the colonies. 2,5-DCHQ and hydroquinone (HQ) degradation activities of these three mutants and UT26 were analyzed using resting cells. The three mutants had different phenotypes. It was also demonstrated that 2,5-DCHQ and HQ degradation activities were inducibly expressed in UT26 in the presence of 2,5-CHQ.
Abstract Ascorbate oxidase oxidizes leuco 2, 6-dichloroindophenol to the blue quinoid dye and produces spectral changes in the UV spectra of certain substituted polyhydric and amino phenols at pH 5.7. The new peaks produced by the addition of enzyme to the dichlorohydroquinones (2,5 and 2,6) and hydroxyhydroquinone correspond to the respective p-quinones of these substrates. At pH 5.7, the enzyme does not oxidize hydroquinone, barely oxidizes chlorohydroquinone, but oxidizes 2,6- and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone and hydroxyhydroquinone at a rate about 1 12 that of ascorbic acid, with the uptake of one gram atom of oxygen per mole of substrate. A correlation has been found between the concentration of anion present in solution at pH 5.7 and the rate of oxidation of compounds of the hydroquinone series by the enzyme. The results indicate that an anionic form of the substrate is an important requirement of the enzyme specificity.
In the present study, H2O2/UV-C, Fenton and photo-Fenton treatment of 2,4-dichlorophenol was compared in terms of oxidation products and acute toxicity. The oxidation products were identified by gas chromatography–mass spectroscopy, high performance liquid chromatography and ion chromatography, whereas changes in acute toxicity were evaluated by the Vibrio fischeri luminescence inhibition assay. H2O2/UV-C and photo-Fenton processes ensured complete 2,4-dichlorophenolremoval, detoxification and significant mineralization. Hydroquinone and formic acid were identified as the common oxidation products of the studied advanced oxidation processes investigated. 3,5-dichloro-2-hydroxybenzaldehyde, phenol, 4-chlorophenol and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone were identified as the additional H2O2/UV-C oxidation products of 2,4-dichlorophenol. Acute toxicity decreased with decreasing 2,4-dichlorophenol and increasing chloride release.
Abstract The lindane (γ-Hexachlorocyclohexane, HCH) is recalcitrant man-made pesticide and due to its past agriculture use and had toxicity to human, other living organisms and its metabolites detected in the environment. The microorganisms can transform and/ degrade it by the mechanism of transformation and biodegradation, respectively. In this study, the degrading bacteria was isolated from the soil sample taken from contaminated site by the enrichment culture method. The finally selected isolate IPL04 was characterized for γ-HCH degradation by supplementation of mineral salt medium with γ-HCH (10–100 mg/L). It should degrade 98 of g-HCH in 8 days. The isolate IPL04 was characterized by biochemical characterization, microscopic examination and 16S rRNA based sequencing. This isolate was identified as Burkholederia sp. and its 16S rRNA sequence was submitted to NCBI GenBank with accession number MF120286. The antibiotic sensitivity tests were also conducted. Effect of pH, temperature and incubation time was standardized during the degradation. The intermediates produced during the degradation by Burkholederia sp strain IPL04 were identified by FTIR and GC-MS analysis. The intermediates of biodegradation pathway were detected as c-pentachlorocyclohexane (c-PCCH), Trichloro-2,5-cyclohexadiene-1-ol (TCCH-1-ol), 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (DCHQ), 1,2-benzenedicarboxlic acid. The metabolic pathway for the degradation by IPL04 was also proposed. This study leads to the finding that Burkholederia sp. strain IPL04 has lindane degradation potential and may be employed in γ-HCH degradation of lindane contaminated sites.
Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 utilizes the important insecticide gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane as a sole source of carbon and energy. In previous studies, we isolated and characterized six structural genes (linA to linF) and one regulatory gene (linR) of UT26 for the degradation of gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane to beta-ketoadipate. Our analysis in this study indicated that the UT26 genome consists of three large circular replicons of 3.6 Mb, 670 kb, and 185 kb. The 3.6 Mb and the 670 kb replicons had one and two copies, respectively, of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene, and these replicons were designated as chromosomes (Chr) I and II, respectively. Chr I was indicated to be a main chromosome carrying the dnaA gene. The first three lin genes, linA to linC, for conversion of gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane to 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, were dispersed on Chr I. The 185 kb plasmid, pCHQ1, carried the linRED operon for the conversion of 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone to maleylacetate and was conjugatively transferred to another sphingomonad strain. The linF gene encoding maleylacetate reductase was located on Chr II. These results indicated that the genes for the complete gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane degradation are dispersed on the three large replicons of UT26.
Abstract To increase our understanding of the photocatalytic effects in the transformation of chlorinated organic compounds, the detailed mechanism of the direct photolysis of polychlorinated phenols has been established under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The quantum yield of photolysis of 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-TCP) has been determined at different wavelenghts and pH values. It has been shown that direct photolysis of polychlorinated phenols is accompanied by chloride ion detachment from different positions of the benzene ring with the formation of 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone and dichlorocyclopentadiene derivatives in the case of 2,4,5-TCP, as well as polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDD) and dibenzofurans (PCDF). Based on the 2,4,5-TCP direct photolysis products, it has been concluded that chlorophenol free radicals are formed as a result of CCl cleavage, which probably act as the origin of highly chlorinated PCDD and PCDF. To utilize visible light in the photocatalytic destruction of organic pllutants, we investigated the kinetics of transformation of polychlorinated phenols in systems involving singlet oxygen formation (dye-sensitized reactions with Rose Bengal, Methylene Blue and Eosin). It has been shown that superoxide radical is not reactive towards 2,4,5-TCP, whereas singlet oxygen results in the destructive oxidation of polychlorinated phenols without formation of PCDD and PCDF among the reaction products. The detailed mechanism of the interaction of singlet oxygen with 2,4,5-TCP has been investigated. It has been concluded that the initial trichlorophenol is dechlorinated and singlet oxygen interaction with 2,4,5-TCP proceeds via a mechanism with the formation of hydrogen peroxide without intermediate superoxide radicals.
The temperature dependences of the equilibrium constant K of the reversible chain reaction of N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinonediimine with 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone in benzene, chlorobenzene, anisole, benzonitrile, and CCl4 were studied. The enthalpies and entropies of the reaction in these solvents were determined, and a linear dependence between them in aromatic solvents was found. The equilibrium constant depends on the solvent nature: the replacement of CCl4 by benzene at T = 298 K increases K from 13.6 to 140. The solvation effects are caused by several types of intermolecular interactions of participants of equilibrium with the medium. The decrease in K in the benzene-anisole-benzonitrile series is related, to a great extent, to complex formation with hydrogen bonding between 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone and the solvents. In anisole a charge-transfer complex is formed between the solvent and reaction product (2,5-dichloroquinone). The constant and enthalpy of the complexation were estimated.
Abstract Chloroneb (1,4-dichloro-2,5-dimethoxybenzene) is a fungicide with moderate systemic properties and selective activity toward certain fungi (e.g., Phytophthora, Pythium, Botrytis, Mucor ). Although the compound is metabolized by some fungi to the toxic oxidation products DCMP (2,5-dichloro-4-methoxyphenol) and DCHQ (2,5-dichlorohydroquinone) the fungitoxic principle is chloroneb per se. It causes a lysis of the inner mitochondrial membrane of sensitive fungi, attacks the nuclear membrane and also other membranes at higher doses. Oxygen consumption by isolated mitochondria slowly decreases, but the respiratory control quotient remains nearly constant. No specific uncoupling activity or inhibition of the respiratory chain could be detected. Chloroneb is bound to the mitochondrial membrane in sensitive organisms, and a good correlation exists between binding capacity, damage to mitochondrial structure and function, and growth inhibitory effects. DCMP has a nearly identical effect, but some additional uncoupling activity whereas DCHQ is different in its mechanism of action. A comparison of a chloroneb-sensitive strain of Mucor mucedo and a resistant strain with respect to the amino acid composition of their mitochondrial membranes demonstrated a significantly diminished content of tyrosine in the resistant strain, which may be associated with the decreased binding capacity for chloroneb. Although the reason for mitochondrial destruction is not yet elucidated, counteracting effects of piperonylbutoxide and α-tocopherol acetate suggest that a radical mechanism may be involved.
Aim: To isolate γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-degrading bacteria from contaminated soil and characterize the metabolites formed and the genes involved in the degradation pathway. ::: ::: ::: ::: Methods and Results: A bacterial strain Xanthomonas sp. ICH12, capable of biodegrading γ- HCH was isolated from HCH-contaminated soil. DNA-colony hybridization method was employed to detect bacterial populations containing specific gene sequences of the γ-HCH degradation pathway. linA (dehydrodehalogenase), linB (hydrolytic dehalogenase) and linC (dehydrogenase) from a Sphingomonas paucimobilis UT26, reportedly possessing γ-HCH degradation activity, were used as gene probes against isolated colonies. The isolate was found to grow and utilize γ-HCH as the sole carbon and energy source. The 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequence of the isolate resulted in its identification as a Xanthomonas species, and we designated it as strain ICH12. During the degradation of γ-HCH by ICH12, formation of two intermediates, γ-2,3,4,5,6-pentachlorocyclohexene (γ-PCCH), and 2,5-dichlorobenzoquinone (2,5-DCBQ), were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometric (GC-MS) analysis. While γ-PCCH was reported previously, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone was a novel metabolite from HCH degradation. ::: ::: ::: ::: Conclusions: A Xanthomonas sp. for γ-HCH degradation from a contaminated soil was isolated. γ-HCH was utilized as sole source of carbon and energy, and the degradation proceeds by successive dechlorination. Two degradation products γ-PCCH and 2,5-DCBQ were characterized, and the latter metabolite was not known in contrasts with the previous studies. The present work, for the first time, demonstrates the potential of a Xanthomonas species to degrade a recalcitrant and widespread pollutant like γ-HCH. ::: ::: ::: ::: Significance and Impact of the Study: This study demonstrates the isolation and characterization of a novel HCH-degrading bacterium. Further results provide an insight into the novel degradation pathway which may exist in diverse HCH-degrading bacteria in contaminated soils leading to bioremediation of γ-HCH.
The effects on polymer yield and viscosity in the interfacial condensation of hydroquinone with phenylphosphonic dichloride as a function of the pH of the aqueous medium are reported. Reactions competing with polymer formation are discussed. The beneficial advantages in the use of soluble buffers or bases of limited water solubility to control pH are contrasted with results of conventionally used sodium hydroxide. The results of investigations of other comer pairs for which reaction conditions have not been optimized are also reported; desoxyribose and the diols: thymidine, resorcinol, 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, 1,3-dihydroxyacetone, 1,4-butanediol, tartaric acid, ethylene glycol, and 2,2-dimethyl-1,3-propanediol are tabulated.
Substituted diphenyldiazomethanes[(x-C6H4)2CN2; x=p-OCH3, p-CH3, H, p-Cl] were found to react with 2,5-dichloro-p-benzoquinone at its conjugated C=C and C=O bonds to give bicyclic diones and poly(2,5-dichlorohydroquinone benzhydryl ether)s respectively, obeying the second-order kinetic law. The product ratios of the polyethers to the bicyclic diones increased from 1.1 to 8.1 with the electron-donating ability of the substituents. The individual rate constants were well correlated with the Hammett equation: logk3=−2.15–1.55 σ (r=0.996) and logk4=−2.03–1.85 (σ0+0.515Δ\barσR+) (r=1.00) for the bicyclic diones and polyethers processes respectively. The presence of methanol as a trapping agent stopped the polymerization completely and afforded the methanolysis product, though no essential change was found in the formation of the bicyclic dione.
A method for determining the rate constant of disproportionation of 2,5-dichlorosemiquinone radicals (k 6) from unsteady-state kinetic data for the initiated chain reaction of N,N′-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinone diimine with 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone have been developed, and two variants of this method are presented. The method is based on the study of the unsteady-state disappearance kinetics of one of the initial reactants (quinone diimine) in its initiated chain reaction with hydroquinone. The unsteadiness of the reaction is due to the presence of semiquinone radicals or initiator radicals accumulated before the start of the reaction at a concentration exceeding the steady-state concentration of semiquinone radicals in the chain reaction. The variants of the method differ in the order of mixing the reactants and initiator, on which the nature and concentration of the radicals accumulated in the system before the reaction depend. In the first variant, a quinone diimine + initiator solution is initially prepared and initiator radicals are accumulated. Hydroquinone is added to this solution (start of the reaction). In the second variant, a hydroquinone + initiator solution is initially prepared and semiquinone radicals from hydroquinone are accumulated. Quinone imine is then added to the solution (start of the reaction). The disproportionation rate constant of semiquinone radicals (k 6) is derived from the dependence of the decrease in the quinone imine concentration in a certain short time (∼20 s) after the start of the reaction on the initiation rate. The rate constant k 6 in benzene is (7.3 ± 3.7) × 106 l mol−1 s−1 according to the first variant of the method and (5.0 ± 2.2) × 106 l mol−1 s−1 according to the second one.
A new method is suggested for the determination of the rate constants for the disproportionation of semiquinone radicals k6 from the kinetics of chain reactions between quinoneimines and hydroquinones under nonstationary conditions. The k6 values were determined in solvents of various natures, including comparatively low-polarity solvents in which hydroquinones are poorly soluble. The k6 values were found from the dependence of the degree of quinoneimine concentration lowering during a certain time (∼20 s) after reaction beginning (when the reaction occurred under nonstationary conditions) on the rate of initiation. Techniques for overcoming difficulties caused by the absence of the limiting chain propagation stage in reactions between quinoneimines and hydroquinones were suggested. The developed method of the nonstationary kinetics of chain reactions was applied to selectively determine the rate constant for the disproportionation of 2,5-dichloroseniquinone radicals, which is one of parallel chain termination stages in the chain reaction between N,N’-diphenyl-1,4-benzoquinonediimine and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone, k6 = (5.8−7.1) × 106 l/(mol s) in chlorobenzene at 298 K.
The growth of a γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH)-degrading bacterium Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 in rich medium was inhibited by γ-HCH. This growth inhibition was not observed in a mutant that lacked the initial or second step enzymatic activity for γ-HCH degradation, suggesting that metabolites of γ-HCH are toxic to UT26. Two metabolites of γ-HCH, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ), showed a direct toxic effect on UT26 and other sphingomonad strains. Because only 2,5-DCP accumulated during γ-HCH degradation, 2,5-DCP is thought to be a main compound for growth inhibition.
The growth of a -hexachlorocyclohexane (-HCH)-degrading bacterium Sphingobium japonicum (formerly Sphingomonas paucimobilis) UT26 in rich medium was inhibited by -HCH. This growth inhibition was not observed in a mutant that lacked the initial or second step enzymatic activity for -HCH degradation, suggesting that metabolites of -HCH are toxic to UT26. Two metabolites of -HCH, 2,5-dichlorophenol (2,5-DCP) and 2,5-dichlorohydroquinone (2,5-DCHQ), showed a direct toxic effect on UT26 and other sphingomonad strains. Because only 2,5-DCP accumulated during -HCH degradation, 2,5-DCP is thought to be a main compound for growth inhibition.
