Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is an inborn error of metabolism most commonly caused by deficient methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MUT) activity. The disorder can have multiple clinical manifestations, including metabolic instability, stroke of the basal ganglia, pancreatitis, end-stage renal failure, growth impairment, osteoporosis and developmental delay. Unfortunately, current non-invasive therapies fail to chronically manage the disease, and patients still suffer from increased morbidity and early mortality. Solid organ transplantation, including elective liver, combined liver-kidney and isolated kidney transplantation, has been used to provide sustained benefit to patients, but the procedures come with substantial risks as well as the post-operative requirement for life-long immunosuppression. To address the large and unmet need for new therapies for patients with MMA, we have developed an effective adeno-associated viral (AAV) gene therapy that has been previously validated in a neonatal lethal mouse model of Mut deficiency (Mut−/−). The current project compares how two distinct AAV8 vectors that express the human MUT gene under the control of either the liver specific, human alpha 1-antitrypsin (hAAT) promoter, or the ubiquitous CMV-enhanced chicken β-actin (CBA) promoter differentially affect metabolite levels following systemic delivery to adult mice. The animals used in this study (Mut−/−;TgINS-MCK-Mut) express wild-type Mut in a muscle-specific fashion via a stable germline transgene and completely lack transgene expression in the liver. Mut−/−;TgINS-MCK-Mut) mice accurately model the hepatorenal manifestations of MMA, but afford an opportunity to assess gene therapy vectors at or after weaning because mice are rescued from neonatal lethality, yet experience massive elevations of the characteristic metabolites (methylmalonic and 2-methylcitric acid) because of the lack of hepatic Mut activity. Disease related metabolites were measured in plasma samples derived from Mut−/−; TglNS-MCK-Mut mice (n=7) prior to AAV gene delivery. The mice were then injected via the retro-orbital route with 1.5X1011 GC of either AAV8-hAAT-MUT or AAV8-CBA-MUT. At 10 days and 30 days post-treatment, mice treated with either vector showed a significant reduction in methylcitrate and methymalonic acid levels, with AAV8-CBA-MUT (n=2) treated mice manifesting methylcitrate and methylmalonic acid levels that trended lower than those measured in mice injected with AAV8-hAAT-MUT (n=4) at both time points. Further studies will be needed to precisely compare the differences between the hAAT and CBA promoters in MMA mouse models, but our preliminary results demonstrate that the Mut−/−; TgINS-MCK-Mut mice can be used to easily ascertain hepatic correction of Mut deficiency, which should help inform the selection of regulatory elements that will provide maximal therapeutic efficacy to treat patients with MMA.
The prpB gene of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 encodes a protein with 2-methylisocitrate (2-MIC) lyase activity, which cleaves 2-MIC into pyruvate and succinate during the conversion of propionate to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. This paper reports the isolation and kinetic characterization of wild-type and five mutant PrpB proteins. Wild-type PrpB protein had a molecular mass of approximately 32 kDa per subunit, and the biologically active enzyme was comprised of four subunits. Optimal 2-MIC lyase activity was measured at pH 7.5 and 50 degrees C, and the reaction required Mg(2+) ions; equimolar concentrations of Mn(2+) ions were a poor substitute for Mg(2+) (28% specific activity). Dithiothreitol (DTT) or reduced glutathione (GSH) was required for optimal activity; the role of DTT or GSH was apparently not to reduce disulfide bonds, since the disulfide-specific reducing agent Tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride failed to substitute for DTT or GSH. The K(m) of PrpB for 2-MIC was measured at 19 micro M, with a k(cat) of 105 s(-1). Mutations in the prpB gene were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis based on the active-site residues deemed important for catalysis in the closely related phosphoenolpyruvate mutase and isocitrate lyase enzymes. Residues D58, K121, C123, and H125 of PrpB were changed to alanine, and residue R122 was changed to lysine. Nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that all mutant PrpB proteins retained the same oligomeric state of the wild-type enzyme, which is known to form tetramers. The PrpB(K121A), PrpB(H125A), and PrpB(R122K) mutant proteins formed enzymes that had 1,050-, 750-, and 2-fold decreases in k(cat) for 2-MIC lyase activity, respectively. The PrpB(D58A) and PrpB(C123A) proteins formed tetramers that displayed no detectable 2-MIC lyase activity indicating that both of these residues are essential for catalysis. Based on the proposed mechanism of the closely related isocitrate lyases, PrpB residue C123 is proposed to serve as the active site base, and residue D58 is critical for the coordination of a required Mg(2+) ion.
The prpB gene of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 encodes a protein with 2-methylisocitrate (2-MIC) lyase activity, which cleaves 2-MIC into pyruvate and succinate during the conversion of propionate to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. This paper reports the isolation and kinetic characterization of wild-type and five mutant PrpB proteins. Wild-type PrpB protein had a molecular mass of approximately 32 kDa per subunit, and the biologically active enzyme was comprised of four subunits. Optimal 2-MIC lyase activity was measured at pH 7.5 and 50°C, and the reaction required Mg 2؉ ions; equimolar concentrations of Mn 2؉ ions were a poor substitute for Mg 2؉ (28% specific activity). Dithiothreitol (DTT) or reduced glutathione (GSH) was required for optimal activity; the role of DTT or GSH was apparently not to reduce disulfide bonds, since the disulfide-specific reducing agent Tris(2-carboxyethyl)phosphine hydrochloride failed to substitute for DTT or GSH. The K m of PrpB for 2-MIC was measured at 19 M, with a k cat of 105 s ؊1 . Mutations in the prpB gene were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis based on the active-site residues deemed important for catalysis in the closely related phosphoenolpyruvate mutase and isocitrate lyase enzymes. Residues D58, K121, C123, and H125 of PrpB were changed to alanine, and residue R122 was changed to lysine. Nondenaturing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis indicated that all mutant PrpB proteins retained the same oligomeric state of the wild-type enzyme, which is known to form tetramers. The PrpB K121A , PrpB H125A , and PrpB R122K mutant proteins formed enzymes that had 1,050-, 750-, and 2-fold decreases in k cat for 2-MIC lyase activity, respectively. The PrpB D58A and PrpB C123A proteins formed tetramers that displayed no detectable 2-MIC lyase activity indicating that both of these residues are essential for catalysis. Based on the proposed mechanism of the closely related isocitrate lyases, PrpB residue C123 is proposed to serve as the active site base, and residue D58 is critical for the coordination of a required Mg 2؉ ion.
Propionate catabolism in Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 (herein referred to as serovar Typhimurium) occurs via the 2-methylcitric acid (2-MC) cycle (Fig. 1) (18) . The 2-MC cycle of propionate metabolism was first identified in the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica and several years later was found to exist in prokaryotes (8, 18, 36, 37) . The prokaryotic enzymes of this pathway have been characterized. PrpE is the propionyl coenzyme A synthetase (14, 17), PrpC is the 2-MC synthase (18, 39), PrpD is the 2-MC dehydratase (8, 15), and PrpB is the 2-methylisocitrate (2-MIC) lyase (7, 18) . This work focuses on the serovar Typhimurium PrpB enzyme, which catalyzes the cleavage of 2-MIC into pyruvate and succinate (15).
OBJECTIVES ::: To describe the prevalence of cobalamin (Cbl) deficiency in older adult outpatients and to determine whether regular intake of a synthetic source of cobalamin confers protection against Cbl deficiency. ::: ::: ::: DESIGN ::: Cross-sectional study. ::: ::: ::: SETTING ::: Two university-affiliated geriatric medicine outpatient clinics. ::: ::: ::: PARTICIPANTS ::: Three hundred fifteen older adults (age range 65-100) without a history of previously diagnosed or treated Cbl deficiency, severe anemia, or a life-threatening illness. ::: ::: ::: MEASUREMENTS ::: Detailed information on total synthetic Cbl intake (from vitamins, fortified cereal, and supplemental nutritional formula sources) and laboratory measures of serum Cbl, metabolite panel (serum methylmalonic acid, homocysteine, cystathionine, and 2-methylcitric acid), complete blood count, and serum creatinine levels. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Cbl deficiency (serum Cbl < or =300 pg/mL and methylmalonic acid (MMA)>271 nmol/L) was found in 13% of screened patients. Forty-six percent of screened patients reported regularly taking a source of synthetic Cbl. Serum Cbl correlated with synthetic Cbl intake, and patients regularly taking synthetic Cbl were significantly less likely to be Cbl deficient than persons not taking supplemental Cbl (8% vs 17%, P =.02). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Regular use of a multivitamin/synthetic Cbl source confers some degree of protection against Cbl deficiency in older adults. The relatively high prevalence rates and benefit of synthetic Cbl intake in this study reinforce recommendations that older adults should be screened for Cbl deficiency and should incorporate synthetic sources of Cbl as part of a balanced diet. Appropriate screening intervals and the optimal dose of supplemental Cbl to prevent Cbl deficiency remains to be determined.
Metabolomics studies based on Gas chromatography–Mass spectrometry (GC-MS) are well established and typically employ electron impact (EI) ionisation. Target compounds of interest can be identified by comparison to commercial or public databases. Unfortunately, many possible biomarkers detected in metabolic profiling experiments cannot be identified due to the lack of reference spectra for a majority of biologically relevant compounds. Therefore, many possible biomarkers remain “unknowns” up till now. Hyphenating gas chromatography with high resolution TOF-MS technology with soft atmospheric pressure ionisation (APCI) can preserve the molecular ion information and delivers accurate mass and isotopic pattern information. This data enables a sum formula generation for known and unknown target compounds. Additionally, optionally acquired MS/ MS data can extend the capabilities for structural elucidation. Mass accuracy, resolution and isotopic fidelity are independent of the TOFMS acquisition rate. Therefore, these instruments can be coupled to gas chromatography, which typically delivers narrow peak width requiring fast MS scan speeds. Corynebactrium glutamicum, a gram positive, nontoxic bacterium, is used in the industrial production of amino acids like lysine and glutamate. C. glutamicum can be grown on different carbon sources. Glucose is metabolised via glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, whereas propionate is catabolised through the methylcitric acid pathway. The prpD2 gene encodes a 2-methylcitrate dehydratase which is involved in the degradation of propionate. Metabolic profiling of Corynebacterium glutamicum delta-prpD2 extracts of cells grown on glucose or glucose and propionate analyzed by GC-APCI-TOF-MS revealed several compounds elevated in cells grown on propionate. Identification of 2-methylcitric acid and alanine using accurate mass and isotopic pattern information in MS and MS/MS spectra provided a proof of concept for the identification of target compounds using high resolution MS technology.
Several recent studies have indicated that deficiencies of vitamin B6, as well as vitamin B12 and folate, occur commonly in elderly people (4, 5). These studies used measurements of methylmalonic acid, homocysteine, 2-methylcitric acid, and cystathionine to demonstrate vitamin-limited enzymatic reactions even when serum vitamin concentrations were normal.
With the introduction of tandem mass spectrometry, newborn screening for disorders of propionate metabolism became widely available. However, there is controversy whether population screening for these disorders should be performed. The most widely used primary metabolite C3 itself has a poor specificity or lacks 100% sensitivity for milder forms and/or defects of cobalamin metabolism. Strategies to improve specificity have included the calculation of metabolite ratios (e.g. C3/C2) or second-tier strategies with analysis of methylmalonic acid or 2-methylcitric acid from the primary screening specimen. We report the results of a new statistical approach to identify parameter combinations that allow for 100% sensitivity as well as increased specificity. The promising results of this alternative approach will have to be substantiated on larger data sets.
The objective of the present work was to evaluate the relevance of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle (2MCC) to the catabolism of propionate in Burkholderia sacchari. Two B. sacchari mutants unable to grow on propionate were obtained: one disrupted in acnM, and the other in acnM and prpC deleted. An operative 2MCC significantly reduces the bacterial ability to incorporate 3-hydroxyvalerate (3HV) into a biodegradable copolyester accumulated from carbohydrates plus propionate. The efficiency of the mutants in converting propionate to 3HV units (Y(3HV/prp)) increased from 0.09 g*g(-1) to 0.81-0.96 g*g(-1), indicating that acnM and prpC are both essential for growth on propionate. None of the mutations resulted in achievement of the maximum theoretical Y3HV/prp (1.35 g*g(-1)). When increasing concentrations of propionate were supplied, decreasing values of Y3HV/prp were observed. The results obtained corroborate the hypothesis of the presence of other propionate catabolic pathways in B. sacchari. The 2MCC would be the more operative pathway, but a second pathway, which remains to be elucidated, would assume more importance under propionate concentrations of 1 g*L(-1) or higher. The efficiency in converting propionate to 3HV units can be improved by decreasing the propionate concentrations, owing to the role of the 2MCC.
CONTEXT ::: Metabolomics is a core discipline of system biology focusing on the study of low molecular weight compounds in biological system. Analysis of human metabolome, which is composed of diverse group of metabolites, can aid in diagnosis and prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). ::: ::: ::: AIM ::: The aim of the present study is to analyze and identify serum metabolites in oral leukoplakia and OSCC as a potential diagnostic biomarker and a predictor for malignant transformation of oral leukoplakia. ::: ::: ::: SUBJECTS AND METHODS ::: Serum metabolomic profile of patients diagnosed with oral leukoplakia (n = 21) and OSCC (n = 22) was compared with normal controls (n = 18) using quadrupole time of flight-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. MassHunter profile software was used for metabolite identification, and statistical analysis to assess the variation of the metabolites was performed using Mass Profiler Professional software. Statistical significance between the three groups was expressed using ANOVA (P < 0.05), and intergroup comparison was done using Student's t-test (P < 0.05). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Significant upregulation of estradiol-17-beta-3-sulfate, L-carnitine, 5-methylthioadenosine (MTA), 8-hydroxyadenine, 2-methylcitric acid, putrescine, and estrone-3-sulfate was seen in oral leukoplakia and OSCC than in normal controls. Furthermore, significant upregulation of 5,6-dihydrouridine, 4-hydroxypenbutolol glucuronide, 8-hydroxyadenine, and putrescine was evident in OSCC group than in oral leukoplakia. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Upregulation of L-carnitine, lysine, 2-methylcitric acid, putrescine; 8-hydroxyadenine; 17-estradiol; 5,6-dihydrouridine; and MTA suggests their diagnostic potential in oral leukoplakia and OSCC. Further, a significant upregulation of putrescine, 8-hydroxyadenine, and 5,6-dihydrouridine in OSCC than in oral leukoplakia indicates their potential role in predicting the malignant transformation of oral leukoplakia.
Strains of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 lacking a functional 2-methylcitric acid cycle (2-MCC) display increased sensitivity to propionate. Previous work from our group indicated that this sensitivity to propionate is in part due to the production of 2-methylcitrate (2-MC) by the Krebs cycle enzyme citrate synthase (GltA). Here we report in vivo and in vitro data which show that a target of the 2-MC isomer produced by GltA (2-MCGltA) is fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), a key enzyme in gluconeogenesis. Lack of growth due to inhibition of FBPase by 2-MCGltA was overcome by increasing the level of FBPase or by micromolar amounts of glucose in the medium. We isolated an fbp allele encoding a single amino acid substitution in FBPase (S123F), which allowed a strain lacking a functional 2-MCC to grow in the presence of propionate. We show that the 2-MCGltA and the 2-MC isomer synthesized by the 2-MC synthase (PrpC; 2-MCPrpC) are not equally toxic to the cell, with 2-MCGltA being significantly more toxic than 2-MCPrpC. This difference in 2-MC toxicity is likely due to the fact that as a si-citrate synthase, GltA may produce multiple isomers of 2-MC, which we propose are not substrates for the 2-MC dehydratase (PrpD) enzyme, accumulate inside the cell, and have deleterious effects on FBPase activity. Our findings may help explain human inborn errors in propionate metabolism.
Strains of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 lacking a functional 2-methylcitric acid cycle (2-MCC) display increased sensitivity to propionate. Previous work from our group indicated that this sensitivity to propionate is in part due to the production of 2-methylcitrate (2-MC) by the Krebs cycle enzyme citrate synthase (GltA). Here we report in vivo and in vitro data which show that a target of the 2-MC isomer produced by GltA (2-MC GltA ) is fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), a key enzyme in gluconeogenesis. Lack of growth due to inhibition of FBPase by 2-MC GltA was overcome by increasing the level of FBPase or by micromolar amounts of glucose in the medium. We isolated an fbp allele encoding a single amino acid substitution in FBPase (S123F), which allowed a strain lacking a functional 2-MCC to grow in the presence of propionate. We show that the 2-MC GltA and the 2-MC isomer synthesized by the 2-MC synthase (PrpC; 2-MC PrpC ) are not equally toxic to the cell, with 2-MC GltA being significantly more toxic than 2-MC PrpC . This difference in 2-MC toxicity is likely due to the fact that as a si-citrate synthase, GltA may produce multiple isomers of 2-MC, which we propose are not substrates for the 2-MC dehydratase (PrpD) enzyme, accumulate inside the cell, and have deleterious effects on FBPase activity. Our findings may help explain human inborn errors in propionate metabolism.
Anemia in seniors is associated with increased mortality and frailty. It is important to determine the cause of anemia in order to initiate specific therapies. We studied cobalamin (Cbl) and folate status with other clinical and laboratory parameters associated with anemia in 234 centenarians from north Georgia aged 98–108 years, 197 female, 46 African-American. The Cbl and folate dependant metabolites included methylmalonic acid (MMA), total homocysteine (Hcys) and 2-methylcitric acid (MC). MMA, MC and Hcys are elevated in clinical Cbl deficiency. MC is also elevated with even mild renal insufficiency. Metabolites were assayed by capillary gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The median hemoglobin (Hgb) and hematocrit (Hct) were 12.0 g/dL and 35.2 %. Severe anemia (Hgb th percentile for hemoglobin was 10.0 g/dL, and in this group, serum MC was increased (p = 0.021), albumin trended lower (p = 0.056) but serum folate, Cbl, Hcys, MMA, and creatinine were not significantly different. Univariate analysis between variables for the whole cohort showed that Hgb was inversely correlated with Hcys (p = 0.028), MC (p = 0.003), creatinine (p = 0.030) and directly with albumin (p = 0.001). In multivariate analysis, albumin was the strongest positive predictor of Hgb and MC was significantly inversely related, whereas creatinine and Hcys were no longer independent determinants. Elevated MMA with low Cbl was common in this cohort but not associated with anemia. Even those above the 90 th percentile for MMA (844–8080 nmol/L) actually had higher Hgb as compared to the rest of the cohort, 12.3 vs. 12.0 mg/dL (p = 0.096). Folate status was high in this cohort (50 th percentile (12.9 ng/mL) and those taking a multivitamin (33%) had 1.5 fold higher serum folate (p th percentile (> 415 nmol/L) had lower Hgb (p = 0.038), higher creatinine (p = 0.003), Hcy (p = 0.003) and MMA (p = 0.060). Ferritin was less than 50 ng/mL in 10/22 subjects with the lowest 10 th percentile Hgb value ( 1.3 mg/dL. Two subjects with MCV > 100 fl had renal insufficiency. In conclusion, 1. High serum 2-methylcitric acid and low serum albumin predict anemia in centenarians. 2. Serum 2-methylcitric acid may be a sensitive indicator of renal failure- associated anemia. 3. Cbl deficiency was not associated with anemia in this cohort with high folate status.
From Ralstonia eutropha HF39 null-allele mutants were created by Tn5 mutagenesis and by homologous recombination which were impaired in growth on propionic acid and levulinic acid. From the molecular, physiological and enzymic analysis of these mutants it was concluded that in this bacterium propionic acid is metabolized via the methylcitric acid pathway. The genes encoding enzymes of this pathway are organized in a cluster in the order prpR, prpB, prpC, acnM, ORF5 and prpD, with prpR transcribed divergently from the other genes. (i) prpC encodes a 2-methylcitric acid synthase (42720 Da) as shown by the measurement of the respective enzyme activity, complementation of a prpC mutant of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium and high sequence similarity. (ii) For the translational product of acnM the function of a 2-methyl-cis-aconitic acid hydratase (94726 Da) is proposed. This protein and also the ORF5 translational product are essential for growth on propionic acid, as revealed by the propionic-acid-negative phenotype of Tn5-insertion mutants, and are required for the conversion of 2-methylcitric acid into 2-methylisocitric acid as shown by the accumulation of the latter, which could be purified as its calcium salt from the supernatants of these mutants. In contrast, inactivation of prpD did not block the ability of the cell to use propionic acid as carbon and energy source, as shown by the propionic acid phenotype of a null-allele mutant. It is therefore unlikely that prpD from R. eutropha encodes a 2-methyl-cis-aconitic acid dehydratase as proposed recently for the homologous prpD gene from S. enterica. (iii) The translational product of prpB encodes 2-methylisocitric acid lyase (32314 Da) as revealed by measurement of the respective enzyme activity and by demonstrating accumulation of methylisocitric acid in the supernatant of a prpB null-allele mutant. (iv) The expression of prpC and probably also of the other enzymes is regulated and is induced during cultivation on propionic acid or levulinic acid. The putative translational product of prpR (70895 Da) exhibited high similarities to PrpR of Escherichia coli and S. enterica, and might represent a transcriptional activator of the sigma-54 family involved in the regulation of the other prp genes. Since the prp locus of R. eutropha was very different from those of E. coli and S. enterica, an extensive comparison of prp loci available from databases and literature was done, revealing two different classes of prp loci.
The male patient is the third child of unrelated Japanese parents. His older sister had tachypnea and feeding difficulties, and died at 5 days of age. The patient was delivered at term (birthweight, 3.8 kg), following an unremarkable pregnancy. He presented with tachypnea, metabolic acidosis, and hyperammonemia (944 μmol · L−1) at 6 days. ::: ::: ### Questions for consideration: ::: ::: 1. What is the differential for infantile presentation of hyperammonemia in the neonatal period? ::: ::: 2. What laboratory tests would you pursue? ::: ::: GO TO SECTION 2 ::: ::: Hyperammonemia occurs in urea cycle disorders (e.g., ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency) and organic acidurias (e.g., methylmalonic aciduria, propionic aciduria, and isovaleric aciduria) and fatty acid oxidation defects (e.g., multiple acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency). The existence of acidosis with ketosis indicates organic aciduria, whereas respiratory alkalosis is observed in urea cycle defects. Diagnosis is based on quantitative assay of amino acids and acylcarnitines from dried blood and organic acids in urine samples. ::: ::: ### Case: part 2. ::: ::: Elevated levels of 2-methylcitric acid and 3-hydroxypropionic acid were found in the urine. The plasma propionic acid concentration was increased (4.5 mg · dL−1), and propionyl-CoA …
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 catabolizes propionate through the 2-methylcitric acid cycle, but the identity of the enzymes catalyzing the conversion of 2-methylcitrate into 2-methylisocitrate is unclear. This work shows that the prpD gene of the prpBCDE operon of this bacterium encodes a protein with 2-methylcitrate dehydratase enzyme activity. Homogeneous PrpD enzyme did not contain an iron-sulfur center, displayed no requirements for metal cations or reducing agents for activity, and did not catalyze the hydration of 2-methyl-cis-aconitate to 2-methylisocitrate. It was concluded that the gene encoding the 2-methyl-cis-aconitate hydratase enzyme is encoded outside the prpBCDE operon. Computer analysis of bacterial genome databases identified the presence of orthologues of the acnA gene (encodes aconitase A) in a number of putative prp operons. Homogeneous AcnA protein of S. enterica had strong aconitase activity and catalyzed the hydration of the 2-methyl-cis-aconitate to yield 2-methylisocitrate. The purification of this enzyme allows the complete reconstitution of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle in vitro using homogeneous preparations of the PrpE, PrpC, PrpD, AcnA, and PrpB enzymes. However, inactivation of the acnA gene did not block growth of S. enterica on propionate as carbon and energy source. The existence of a redundant aconitase activity (encoded by acnB) was postulated to be responsible for the lack of a phenotype in acnA mutant strains. Consistent with this hypothesis, homogeneous AcnB protein of S. enterica also had strong aconitase activity and catalyzed the conversion of 2-methyl-cis-aconitate into 2-methylisocitrate. To address the involvement of AcnB in propionate catabolism, an acnA and acnB double mutant was constructed, and this mutant strain cannot grow on propionate even when supplemented with glutamate. The phenotype of this double mutant indicates that the aconitase enzymes are required for the 2-methylcitric acid cycle during propionate catabolism.
BackgroundRalstonia eutropha H16, found in both soil and water, is a Gram-negative lithoautotrophic bacterium that can utillize CO2 and H2 as its sources of carbon and energy in the absence of organic substrates. R. eutropha H16 can reach high cell densities either under lithoautotrophic or heterotrophic conditions, which makes it suitable for a number of biotechnological applications. It is the best known and most promising producer of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) from various carbon substrates and is an environmentally important bacterium that can degrade aromatic compounds. In order to make R. eutropha H16 a more efficient and robust biofactory, system-wide metabolic engineering to improve its metabolic performance is essential. Thus, it is necessary to analyze its metabolic characteristics systematically and optimize the entire metabolic network at systems level.ResultsWe present the lithoautotrophic genome-scale metabolic model of R. eutropha H16 based on the annotated genome with biochemical and physiological information. The stoichiometic model, RehMBEL1391, is composed of 1391 reactions including 229 transport reactions and 1171 metabolites. Constraints-based flux analyses were performed to refine and validate the genome-scale metabolic model under environmental and genetic perturbations. First, the lithoautotrophic growth characteristics of R. eutropha H16 were investigated under varying feeding ratios of gas mixture. Second, the genome-scale metabolic model was used to design the strategies for the production of poly[R-(-)-3hydroxybutyrate] (PHB) under different pH values and carbon/nitrogen source uptake ratios. It was also used to analyze the metabolic characteristics of R. eutropha when the phosphofructokinase gene was expressed. Finally, in silico gene knockout simulations were performed to identify targets for metabolic engineering essential for the production of 2-methylcitric acid in R. eutropha H16.ConclusionThe genome-scale metabolic model, RehMBEL1391, successfully represented metabolic characteristics of R. eutropha H16 at systems level. The reconstructed genome-scale metabolic model can be employed as an useful tool for understanding its metabolic capabilities, predicting its physiological consequences in response to various environmental and genetic changes, and developing strategies for systems metabolic engineering to improve its metabolic performance.
Regardless of the mechanism that causes astronaut ophthalmologic issues, the fact remains that not all astronauts are affected. In 2012, we reported that astronauts who experienced ophthalmic issues after flight had higher plasma concentrations of metabolites that are associated with the 1-carbon metabolic pathway-homocysteine, cystathionine, 2-methylcitric acid, and methylmalonic acid-than did astronauts who were not considered cases (11). Not only were the concentrations of these metabolites higher in the affected individuals during flight, they were also higher before and after flight (11). In evaluating these data, we ruled out several possible confounding factors: sex differences, vitamin deficiency, kidney function, and coffee consumption (12) .
Background: Ralstonia eutropha H16, found in both soil and water, is a Gram-negative lithoautotrophic bacterium that can utillize CO 2 and H 2 as its sources of carbon and energy in the absence of organic substrates. R. eutropha H16 can reach high cell densities either under lithoautotrophic or heterotrophic conditions, which makes it suitable for a number of biotechnological applications. It is the best known and most promising producer of polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) from various carbon substrates and is an environmentally important bacterium that can degrade aromatic compounds. In order to make R. eutropha H16 a more efficient and robust biofactory, system-wide metabolic engineering to improve its metabolic performance is essential. Thus, it is necessary to analyze its metabolic characteristics systematically and optimize the entire metabolic network at systems level. Results: We present the lithoautotrophic genome-scale metabolic model of R. eutropha H16 based on the annotated genome with biochemical and physiological information. The stoichiometic model, RehMBEL1391, is composed of 1391 reactions including 229 transport reactions and 1171 metabolites. Constraints-based flux analyses were performed to refine and validate the genome-scale metabolic model under environmental and genetic perturbations. First, the lithoautotrophic growth characteristics of R. eutropha H16 were investigated under varying feeding ratios of gas mixture. Second, the genome-scale metabolic model was used to design the strategies for the production of poly[R-(-)-3hydroxybutyrate] (PHB) under different pH values and carbon/ nitrogen source uptake ratios. It was also used to analyze the metabolic characteristics of R. eutropha when the phosphofructokinase gene was expressed. Finally, in silico gene knockout simulations were performed to identify targets for metabolic engineering essential for the production of 2-methylcitric acid in R. eutropha H16.
R. eutropha is a versatile microorganism in many aspects, including PHA production, utilization of diverse carbon sources, degradation of aromatic compounds, lithoautotrophic growth and high cell density growth. To better appreciate this organism and explore potential applications, we reconstructed the genome-scale metabolic model of R. eutropha, RehMBEL1391, consisting of 1391 reactions and 1171 metabolites based on the information obtained from genome annotation data, literature and validation experiments. Using this metabolic model, in silico metabolic flux analyses were performed to investigate the effects of various environmental and genetic variables. First, the effects of relative feeding ratio of gas mixture, consisting of H 2 , O 2 , and CO 2 , on the lithoautotrophic growth of R. eutropha were successfully confirmed. Also, to design strategies for better PHB production, in silico metabolic flux analyses of RehMBEL1391 were performed to examine the effects of pH values ranging from 6 to 8 and different C/N uptake ratios on R. eutropha's capability of producing PHB. Furthermore, the effects of expression of phosphofructokinase and the importance of ED pathway for the utilization of hexoses as a carbon source were investigated and compared with the reported experimental data. Finally, RehMBEL1391 was successfully used to identify gene knockout targets for metabolic engineering through in silico gene knockout simulation for the production of 2-methylcitric acid. From an industrial perspective, there exist many hurdles to overcome for successful application of R. eutropha, particularly in the field of industrial biotechnology. Although this study presented only the limited use of the genome-scale metabolic model, it managed to thoroughly validate the network model in comparison with various experimental data. Hence, it is expected that this network model will serve as a knowledge-base that contributes to tackling problems more systematically and expanding our insight on this organism in return. KEGG: Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; UMBBD: university of Minnesota biocatalyst/biodegradation database; gDCW: gram dry cell weight; GC: gas chromatography; 3HB: 3-hydroxybutyrate; GAME: growth associated maintenance energy; NGAME: non growth associated maintenance energy; LP: linear programming; FVA: flux variability analysis
Methylmalonic aciduria (MMA-uria), first described by the group of Oberholzer et al. in 1967 [1] , belongs to the group of organic acidurias. It is biochemically characterized by the accumulation of specific organic acids such as methylmalonic acid (MMA), propionate (PA), 3-OH-propionic acid (3-OH-PA) and 2-methylcitric acid (MC). The disease is caused either by mutations (mut 0 , mut − ) in the enzyme methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MCM) which is involved in the breakdown of branched chain amino acids, odd-numbered chain fatty acids, cholesterol side chains and other metabolites or by mutations in the genes MMAA (cblA), MMAB (cblB) and MMADHC (cblD-variant2) encoding proteins important for the synthesis of its cofactor adenosylcobalamin (AdoCbl) [2] . According to the type of mutation and resulting residual enzymatic activity, there is a wide clinical spectrum of the disease. Typically, patients manifest with acute metabolic crisis during the first days of life or in catabolic states due to infectious diseases or prolonged fasting. The metabolic crises are characterized by lactic acidosis, hyperketonaemia, hypo-or hyperglycaemia and hyperammonaemia and may result in metabolic encephalopathy and multi-organ failure. Complications include failure to thrive, developmental delay, mental retardation, muscular hypotonia, metabolic stroke like episodes with basal ganglia damage and renal failure [3] . The pathophysiology of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in MMA-uria is poorly understood. There is evidence that the severity of the defect and therefore the concentration of MMA might play an important role [3] . The nature of the disease in the kidney is unclear for the lack of specific biomarkers and investigations of kidney biopsies at an early stage of the disease. Careful clinical descriptions combined with detailed studies of kidney biopsies are necessary to yield insights into the origin of kidney destruction. Here we present the 42-year history of renal involvement as well as analysis of several kidney biopsies in a female patient with vitamin B 12 -responsive MMA-uria due to a homozygous stop mutation in the MMAA gene (cblA).
T (Bruland et al. 2009; Wübbeler et al. 2006 Wübbeler et al. , 2008 . These studies led to a proposed degradation pathway from DTDP and TDP via 3MP, 3SP, and 3SP-CoA towards propionyl-CoA. The catabolism of propionyl-CoA via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle was strongly proposed for A. mimigardefordensis (Wübbeler et al. 2008) .
Background Newborn screening for propionic acidemia and methylmalonic acidurias using the marker propionylcarnitine (C3) is neither sensitive nor specific. Using C3 to acetylcarnitine (C3/C2) ratio, together with conservative C3 cut-offs, can improve screening sensitivity, but the false positive rate remains high. Incorporating the marker 2-methylcitric acid has been suggested, to improve the positive predictive value for these disorders without compromising the sensitivity. Methods Between July 2011 and December 2012 at the Newborn Screening Ontario laboratory, all neonatal dried blood spot samples that were reported as screen positive for propionic acidemia or methylmalonic acidurias based on elevated C3 and C3/C2 ratio were analyzed for 2-methylcitric acid, using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Results Of 222,420 samples screened, 103 were positive for methylmalonic acidurias or propionic acidemia using C3 and C3/C2 ratio as markers. There were nine true positives: propionic acidemia (n = 3), Cobalamin (Cbl) A (n=1), and Cbl C (n = 5). Among false positives there were 72 neonates not affected, 20 with maternal B12 deficiency, and two incidental finding (transcobalamin II and unclassified Cbl defect). 2-Methylcitric acid was analyzed in all 103 samples and ranged between 0.1 and 89.4 µmol/l (reference range 0.04-0.36). Only 14 samples exceeded the set 2-methylcitric acid cut-off of 1.0 µmol/l, including the samples from all nine true positives. Conclusion By including 2-methylcitric acid in the screening algorithm, the positive predictive value of our primary and secondary screening targets improved from 8.7 to 64.3%. This would have eliminated 89 unnecessary referrals while maintaining 100% sensitivity.
2-Methylcitric acid (2-MCA) cycle is one of the well studied pathways for the utilization of propionate as a source of carbon and energy in bacteria such as Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli. 2-Methylcitrate synthase (2-MCS) catalyzes the conversion of oxaloacetate and propionyl-CoA to 2-methylcitrate and CoA in the second step of 2-MCA cycle. Here, we report the X-ray crystal structure of S. typhimurium 2-MCS (StPrpC) at 2.4Å resolution and its functional characterization. StPrpC was found to utilize propionyl-CoA more efficiently than acetyl-CoA or butyryl-CoA. The polypeptide fold and the catalytic residues of StPrpC are conserved in citrate synthases (CSs) suggesting similarities in their functional mechanisms. In the triclinic P1 cell, StPrpC molecules were organized as decamers composed of five identical dimer units. In solution, StPrpC was in a dimeric form at low concentrations and was converted to larger oligomers at higher concentrations. CSs are usually dimeric proteins. In Gram-negative bacteria, a hexameric form, believed to be important for regulation of activity by NADH, is also observed. Structural comparisons with hexameric E. coli CS suggested that the key residues involved in NADH binding are not conserved in StPrpC. Structural comparison with the ligand free and bound states of CSs showed that StPrpC is in a nearly closed conformation despite the absence of bound ligands. It was found that the Tyr197 and Leu324 of StPrpC are structurally equivalent to the ligand binding residues His and Val, respectively, of CSs. These substitutions might determine the specificities for acyl-CoAs of these enzymes.
BACKGROUND ::: Hyperhomocysteinemia has been increasingly recognized as an important risk factor for elevated atherosclerotic vascular disease in chronic renal failure. We measured in patients with chronic renal failure homocysteine and metabolites of its 2 metabolic pathways, transulfuration (cystathionine, cysteine) and remethylation (methionine, methylmalonic acid, 2-methylcitric acid). ::: ::: ::: PATIENTS AND METHODS ::: Eleven patients on conservative treatment (creatinine clearance 10 to 30 ml/min) and 50 chronic uremic subjects on regular hemodialysis were included in the study. Twenty-two of the dialysis patients received daily oral multivitamin supplementation containing 10 mg vitamin B6, 6 micrograms vitamin B12, and 1 mg folic acid during the last year before the study started. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: In the hemodialysis group homocysteine levels were higher compared with the patients on conservative treatment. Hemodialysis patients with additional vitamin supplementation showed significantly lower homocysteine levels than those without. The pattern of metabolites was different to these results: all metabolites were higher in hemodialysis patients, too (significant for cysteine and methionine), but vitamin supplementation failed to lower all metabolites. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Analysis of metabolites additional to homocysteine levels may help to understand different results in evaluation of atherosclerotic risk of hyperhomocysteinemia in chronic renal failure.
Background: Newborn screening for propionic acidemia and methylmalonic acidurias using the marker propionylcarnitine (C3) is neither sensitive nor specific. Using C3 to acetylcarnitine (C3/C2) ratio, together with conservative C3 cut-offs, can improve screening sensitivity, but the false positive rate remains high. Incorporating the marker 2-methylcitric acid has been suggested, to improve the positive predictive value for these disorders without compromising the sensitivity. Methods: Between July 2011 and December 2012 at the Newborn Screening Ontario laboratory, all neonatal dried blood spot samples that were reported as screen positive for propionic acidemia or methylmalonic acidurias based on elevated C3 and C3/ C2 ratio were analyzed for 2-methylcitric acid, using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Results: Of 222,420 samples screened, 103 were positive for methylmalonic acidurias or propionic acidemia using C3 and C3/ C2 ratio as markers. There were nine true positives: propionic acidemia (n ¼ 3), Cobalamin (Cbl) A (n¼1), and Cbl C (n ¼ 5). Among false positives there were 72 neonates not affected, 20 with maternal B 12 deficiency, and two incidental finding (transcobalamin II and unclassified Cbl defect). 2-Methylcitric acid was analyzed in all 103 samples and ranged between 0.1 and 89.4 mmol/l (reference range 0.04-0.36). Only 14 samples exceeded the set 2-methylcitric acid cut-off of 1.0 mmol/l, including the samples from all nine true positives. Conclusion: By including 2-methylcitric acid in the screening algorithm, the positive predictive value of our primary and secondary screening targets improved from 8.7 to 64.3%. This would have eliminated 89 unnecessary referrals while maintaining 100% sensitivity.
In newborn screening for congenital or inherited disorders, the widespread introduction of tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) has enabled multiplexed detection of a significant number of neonatal metabolic disorders. Several defects of propionate metabolism are included in many screening programs, 1 for example, methylmalonyl CoA mutase deficiency (OMIM ID: 251000), propionic acidemia (PA, OMIM ID: 606054), and other disorders involved in cobalamin (Cbl) metabolism. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] Affected infants have a significant risk of neurological damage or life-threatening episodes due to metabolic acidosis, ketosis, and hyperammonemia. Improved outcomes are anticipated should treatment of affected babies start before symptoms appear. 6, 7 PA and methylmalonic acidurias (MMA), caused by defects in methylmalonyl CoA mutase or Cbl metabolism, are characterized by accumulation of propionylcarnitine (C3), a marker that can be detected by standard MS/MS screening methods. C3 concentrations in affected and unaffected newborns overlap significantly. 8 While conservative C3 cut-offs combined with C3 to acetylcarnitine (C3/C2) ratio can provide adequate screening sensitivity, the false positive rate is high. To mitigate this, we recently described a simple method to measure 2-methylcitric acid (MCA) in dried blood spots (DBS) that can be easily incorporated as a second-tier test for samples with elevated C3 and C3/C2 ratio. 9 MCA is generally accepted as a pathognomonic marker for propionate metabolic defects and has been shown to improve newborn screening for PA, MMA, and Cbl defects. 9, 10 In an 18-month study, we measured MCA in the original screening DBS samples as a second-tier test.
In bacteria, the dehydration of 2-methylcitrate to yield 2-methylaconitate in the 2-methylcitric acid cycle is catalyzed by a cofactor-less (PrpD) enzyme or by an aconitase-like (AcnD) enzyme. Bacteria that use AcnD also require the function of the PrpF protein, whose function was previously unknown. To gain insights into the function of PrpF, the three-dimensional crystal structure of the PrpF protein from the bacterium Shewanella oneidensis was solved at 2.0 A resolution. The protein fold of PrpF is strikingly similar to those of the non-PLP-dependent diaminopimelate epimerase from Haemophilus influenzae, a putative proline racemase from Brucella melitensis, and to a recently deposited structure of a hypothetical protein from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Results from in vitro studies show that PrpF isomerizes trans-aconitate to cis-aconitate. It is proposed that PrpF catalysis of the cis–trans isomerization proceeds through a base-catalyzed proton abstraction coupled with a rotation about C2–C3 bond of 2-methylaconitate, and that residue Lys73 is critical for PrpF function. The newly identified function of PrpF as a non-PLP-dependent isomerase, together with the fact that PrpD-containing bacteria do not require PrpF, suggest that the isomer of 2-methylaconitate that serves as a substrate of aconitase must have the same stereochemistry as that synthesized by PrpD. From this, it follows that the 2-methylaconitate isomer generated by AcnD is not a substrate of aconitase, and that PrpF is required to generate the correct isomer. As a consequence, the isomerase activity of PrpF may now be viewed as an integral part of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle.
Analysis of the genomic sequences of Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium has revealed the presence of several homologues of the well studied citrate synthase (CS). One of these homologues has been shown to code for 2-methylcitrate synthase (2-MCS) activity. 2-MCS catalyzes one of the steps in the 2-methylcitric acid cycle found in these organisms for the degradation of propionate to pyruvate and succinate. In the present work, the gene coding for 2-MCS from S. typhimurium (StPrpC) was cloned in pRSET-C vector and overexpressed in E. coli. The protein was purified to homogeneity using Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. The purified protein was crystallized using the microbatch-under-oil method. The StPrpC crystals diffracted X-rays to 2.4 A resolution and belonged to the triclinic space group P1, with unit-cell parameters a = 92.068, b = 118.159, c = 120.659 A, alpha = 60.84, beta = 67.77, gamma = 81.92 degrees . Computation of rotation functions using the X-ray diffraction data shows that the protein is likely to be a decamer of identical subunits, unlike CSs, which are dimers or hexamers.
Analysis of the genomic sequences of Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium has revealed the presence of several homologues of the well studied citrate synthase (CS). One of these homologues has been shown to code for 2-methylcitrate synthase (2-MCS) activity. 2-MCS catalyzes one of the steps in the 2-methylcitric acid cycle found in these organisms for the degradation of propionate to pyruvate and succinate. In the present work, the gene coding for 2-MCS from S. typhimurium (StPrpC) was cloned in pRSET-C vector and overexpressed in E. coli. The protein was purified to homogeneity using Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. The purified protein was crystallized using the microbatch-under-oil method. The StPrpC crystals diffracted X-rays to 2.4 Å resolution and belonged to the triclinic space group P1, with unit-cell parameters a = 92. 068, b = 118.159, c = 120.659 Å , = 60.84, = 67.77, = 81.92 . Computation of rotation functions using the X-ray diffraction data shows that the protein is likely to be a decamer of identical subunits, unlike CSs, which are dimers or hexamers.
Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), such as acetate and propionate, are byproducts of bacterial fermentation and are in turn inhibitors of bacterial growth (Cherrington et al., 1991) . Enteric bacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium are exposed to high concentrations of propionate in the gastrointestinal tracts of mammals (Cummings et al., 1987) . In chicken and mice it has been shown that the high concentration of SCFAs in the intestinal tract can greatly increase resistance to Salmonella infections (Barnes et al., 1979; Bohnhoff & Miller, 1962) . However, many aerobic bacteria and fungi, as well as some anaerobes, can utilize SCFAs as a source of carbon and energy (Callely & Lloyd, 1964a,b) . This could serve as a defence mechanism in these organisms against the negative effects of SCFAs. Studies of propionic acid metabolism in various organisms have revealed at least seven different pathways (Textor et al., 1997) . One of these pathways is coded by the prp locus in S. typhimurium LT2 (Hammelman et al., 1996) . Nucleotide sequencing of the prp locus revealed two operons organized as prpR and prpBCDE which are transcribed in opposite directions (Horswill & Escalante-Semerena, 1997) . prpR codes for a protein belonging to the 54 transcriptional activator, while prpB, prpC, prpD and prpE code for 2-methylisocitrate lyase, 2-methylcitrate synthase (2-MCS), 2-methylcitrate dehydratase and propionyl-CoA synthetase, respectively (Horswill & Escalante-Semerena, 1997 . Oxidation of propionate closely parallels the conversion of acetate to glyoxalate in the glyoxylate cycle. The pathway begins with the synthesis of propionyl-CoA from propionate and CoA catalyzed by PrpE. The second reaction of the pathway, which involves the condensation of propionyl-CoA and oxaloacetate to form 2-methylcitrate and CoA, is catalyzed by PrpC. This reaction is followed by the conversion of 2-methylcitrate to 2-methyl-cis-aconitate catalyzed by PrpD. 2-Methyl-cis-aconitate is further converted to 2-methylisocitrate by aconitase . The final step of the pathway, which involves the cleavage of 2-methylisocitrate to succinate and pyruvate, is catalyzed by PrpB. Cells that catabolize propionate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle are at risk because 2-methylcitrate, or a derivative of it, is a potent inhibitor of cell growth (Beach et al., 1977; Cheema-Dhadli et al., 1975; . Salmonella may also be under evolutionary pressure to maintain a low level of propionyl-CoA Munoz-Elias et al., 2006; Upton & McKinney, 2007) . The tightly regulated 2-methylcitrate pathway appears to be important for detoxification and as a source of carbon and energy provided by the degradation of propionate to pyruvate and succinate.
BACKGROUND ::: In the elderly, deficiencies of folate, cobalamin (vitamin B(12)) and pyridoxal phosphate (vitamin B(6)) are common. The metabolites homocysteine, methylmalonic acid, 2-methylcitric acid and cystathionine have been reported to be sensitive markers of these vitamin deficiencies. ::: ::: ::: OBJECTIVE ::: The long-term (269 days) effect of an intramuscular vitamin supplement containing 1 mg vitamin B(12), 1.1 mg folate, and 5 mg vitamin B(6) on serum concentrations of homocysteine (tHcy), methylmalonic acid (MMA), 2-methylcitric acid (2-MCA), and cystathionine (Cysta) was studied in 49 elderly subjects with normal levels of vitamin B(12). ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Vitamin supplement was administered 8 times over a 21-day period, metabolite concentrations were measured until day 269 (e.g. 248 days after the end of vitamin supplementation). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: From day 0 to 21, the serum levels of the 3 vitamins increased significantly, after cessation of supplementation the levels returned to baseline within the follow-up period. The MMA, 2-MCA and tHcy levels decreased during the treatment period significantly and did not reach baseline values within the 248-day period. Cysta levels did not differ significantly from baseline, either during or after treatment. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: MMA and 2-MCA levels rather reflect the availability of vitamins, especially cobalamin, than the actual serum levels. Since deficiencies of folate, cobalamin and pyridoxal phosphate in the elderly may cause hyerhomocysteinemia and hence may have unfavorable effects on mental performance, determination of MMA and 2-MCA levels in elderly patients with mental disturbances may be a cost-effective measure to improve or maintain mental performance.
The hitherto unstudied microbial degradation of the organic disulfide 3,3'-dithiodipropionic acid (DTDP) was investigated with the recently described bacterium Tetrathiobacter mimigardefordensis strain DPN7(T) (DSM 17166(T); LMG 22922(T)), which is able to use DTDP as the sole carbon source for growth. 3-Mercaptopropionic acid (3MP) and 3-sulfinopropionic acid (3SP) were detected in the growth medium and occurred as intermediates during DTDP degradation. To identify genes coding for enzymes of DTDP catabolism, Tn5::mob-induced mutants of T. mimigardefordensis were generated. Screening of transposon mutant libraries yielded many mutants fully or partially impaired in utilizing DTDP as a carbon source. Mapping of the insertion loci in some mutants identified four disrupted open reading frames (ORFs) with putative metabolic functions. The ORFs were assigned function on the basis of homologies with lpdA (EC 1.8.1.4), cdo (EC 1.13.11.20), sucCD (EC 6.2.1.5), and acnB (EC 4.2.1.3). Tn5::mob insertions occurred additionally in the vicinity of heat shock protein-encoding genes. The predicted function of the LpdA homologue in T. mimigardefordensis is cleavage of the disulfide bond of DTDP to form two molecules of 3MP. Cdo catalyzes the conversion of the sulfhydryl group of 3MP, yielding the corresponding sulfinic acid, 3SP. SucCD exhibits thiokinase activity, ligating coenzyme A (CoA) with 3SP to form 3SP-CoA. Afterwards, an elimination of sulfite via a putative desulfinase is expected. acnB encodes a putative 2-methylisocitrate dehydratase. Therefore, a new pathway is proposed for the catabolism of DTDP via 3MP, 3SP, and 3SP-CoA toward propionyl-CoA, which is then further catabolized via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle in T. mimigardefordensis.
Biodegradative threonine deaminase is inhibited by -keto acids and inactivated by certain intermediary metabolites of the glycolytic pathway and the tricarboxylic acid cycle (Bhadra & Datta, 1978; Park & Datta, 1979a,b) . In TdcB, the activation of TdcB by AMP results in a large decrease in K m for l-threonine with a small increase in V max (Dunne & Wood, 1975) . No evidence has been obtained for the direct participation of AMP in the reaction mechanism. AMP appears to exert its activating effect by shifting the monomer-oligomer distribution in the direction of oligomer formation (Dunne & Wood, 1975; Shizuta & Hayaishi, 1976) . It is likely that during periods in which levels of energy in the cells are low, the higher concentration of AMP provides a signal for activation and conversion of l-threonine to propionate and ATP (Dunne & Wood, 1975) . In E. coli and S. typhimurium, propionate can be further catabolized into pyruvate and succinate by the 2-methylcitric acid cycle (Horswill & EscalanteSemerena, 1999) .
The 2-methylcitric acid cycle (2-MCC) is a common route of propionate catabolism in microorganisms. In Salmonella enterica, the prpBCDE operon encodes most of the 2-MCC enzymes. In other organisms, e.g., Shewanella oneidensis MR-1, two genes, acnD and prpF replace prpD, which encodes 2-methylcitrate dehydratase. We showed that together, S. oneidensis AcnD and PrpF (SoAcnD, SoPrpF) compensated for the absence of PrpD in a S. enterica prpD strain. We also showed that SoAcnD had 2-methylcitrate dehydratase activity and that PrpF has aconitate isomerase activity. Here we report in vitro evidence that the product of the SoAcnD reaction is an isomer of 2-methyl-cis-aconitate (2-MCA], the product of the SePrpD reaction. We show that the SoPrpF protein isomerizes the product of the AcnD reaction into the PrpD product (2-MCA], a known substrate of the housekeeping aconitase (AcnB]. Given that SoPrpF is an isomerase, that SoAcnD is a dehydratase, and the results from in vivo and in vitro experiments reported here, it is likely that 4-methylaconitate is the product of the AcnD enzyme. Results from in vivo studies using a S. enterica prpD strain show that SoPrpF variants with substitutions of residues K73 or C107 failed to support growth with propionate as the sole source of carbon and energy. High-resolution (1.22 A) three-dimensional crystal structures of PrpFK73E in complex with trans-aconitate or malonate provide insights into the mechanism of catalysis of the wild-type protein.
Citrate synthase catalyzes the condensation of acetyl-coenzyme A (CoA) and oxaloacetic acid to form citric acid. The enzyme also catalyzes the condensation of propionyl-CoA and oxaloacetic acid with a maximal reaction velocity (Vmax) approximately 10(-4) times that of acetyl-CoA to form 2-methylcitric acid, which contains two asymmetric carbon atoms and exists as two pairs of related enantiomers designated as 2-methylcitric acid I and II. Cobalamin (Cbl) deficiency can lead to increases in intracellular levels of propionyl-CoA. To assess the magnitude of increased synthesis of 2-methylcitric acid in Cbl deficiency, we developed a new capillary gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric assay and measured 2-methylcitric acid levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of normal subjects and patients with clinically confirmed Cbl deficiency. The normal range for 2-methylcitric acid level was 60 to 228 nmol/L for serum in 50 normal blood donors and 323 to 1,070 nmol/L for CSF in 19 normal subjects. In 50 patients with clinically confirmed Cbl deficiency, values for 2-methylcitric acid in serum ranged from 93 to 13,500 nmol/L; 44 (88%) had values above the normal range. In five patients with clinically confirmed Cbl deficiency, levels of the sum of 2-methylcitric acid I and II ranged from 1,370 to 16,300 nmol/L in CSF, and all five (100%) patients had levels above the normal range. We conclude that levels of 2-methylcitric acid are elevated in serum and CSF of most patients with Cbl deficiency.
Cobalamin (Vitamin B12) plays an essential role both in the conversion of methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA and in the synthesis of methionine (Met) from homocysteine (Hcy). Elevations of total homocysteine (tHcy), Met, methylmalonic acid (MMA), and 2-methylcitric acid (2MCA) are indicative of disorders in these related pathways, and can clinically present as methylmalonic acidemia, cobalamin defects or deficiency, propionic acidemia, homocystinuria, and hypermethioninemia. We have developed a fast, sensitive, and simple method for the simultaneous detection of plasma tHcy, MMA, Met, and 2MCA using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS). All analytes were directly determined without the need of derivatization. Both positive and negative modes were used to achieve the best sensitivity and specificity. The two stereo isomers of 2MCA (2S, 3S) and (2R, 3S) were successfully separated and were designated as 2MCA1 and 2MCA2. The assays were linear up to a concentration of 800 μMol/l for tHcy, 2,000 μMol/l for Met, 80 μMol/l for MMA, 40 μMol/l for 2MCA1, and 40 μMol/l for 2MCA2 (80 μMol/l for total 2MCA), respectively. The recovery was between 84.42 % and 120.05 %. The intra-assay coefficient of variations (CVs) ranged from 2.1 % to 6.9 % (n = 20), and the inter-assay CVs ranged from 2.7 % to 11.6 % (n = 20). Reference intervals were established and verified (n = 125). A total of 15 patients with variable disorders in related pathway were successfully confirmed. The assay can be performed either in diagnostic laboratories or as second-tier, follow-up test in newborn screening laboratories.A fast, sensitive, and simple LC/MS/MS method was developed successfully for the simultaneous detection of plasma total homocysteine, methylmalonic acid, methionine, and 2-methylcitric acid for diagnosis of disorders in related pathways.
Measurements of the serum concentrations of the metabolites homocysteine, cystathionine, methylmalonic acid, and 2-methylcitric acid, which accumulates when vitamin B-12-, folate-, and vitamin B-6-dependent enzymatic reactions are impaired, should provide a better indication of intracellular deficiency of these vitamins. We measured the serum concentration of these vitamins and the four metabolites in 99 healthy young people, 64 healthy elderly subjects, and 286 elderly hospitalized patients. A low serum vitamin B-12 concentration was found in 6% and 5%, low folate in 5% and 19%, and low vitamin B-6 in 9% and 51%, and one or more metabolites were elevated in 63% and 83% of healthy elderly subjects and elderly hospitalized patients, respectively. These results strongly suggest that the prevalence of tissue deficiencies of vitamin B-12, folate, and vitamin B-6 as demonstrated by the elevated metabolite concentrations is substantially higher than that estimated by measuring concentrations of the vitamins.
From Ralstonia eutropha HF39 null-allele mutants were created by Tn5 mutagenesis and by homologous recombination which were impaired in growth on propionic acid and levulinic acid. From the molecular, physiological and enzymic analysis of these mutants it was concluded that in this bacterium propionic acid is metabolized via the methylcitric acid pathway. The genes encoding enzymes of this pathway are organized in a cluster in the order prpR, prpB, prpC, acnM, ORF5 and prpD, with prpR transcribed divergently from the other genes. (i) prpC encodes a 2-methylcitric acid synthase (42720 Da) as shown by the measurement of the respective enzyme activity, complementation of a prpC mutant of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium and high sequence similarity. (ii) For the translational product of acnM the function of a 2-methyl-cis-aconitic acid hydratase (94726 Da) is proposed. This protein and also the ORF5 translational product are essential for growth on propionic acid, as revealed by the propionic-acid-negative phenotype of Tn5-insertion mutants, and are required for the conversion of 2-methylcitric acid into 2-methylisocitric acid as shown by the accumulation of the latter, which could be purified as its calcium salt from the supernatants of these mutants. In contrast, inactivation of prpD did not block the ability of the cell to use propionic acid as carbon and energy source, as shown by the propionic acid phenotype of a null-allele mutant. It is therefore unlikely that prpD from R. eutropha encodes a 2-methyl-cis-aconitic acid dehydratase as proposed recently for the homologous prpD gene from S. enterica. (iii) The translational product of prpB encodes 2-methylisocitric acid lyase (32314 Da) as revealed by measurement of the respective enzyme activity and by demonstrating accumulation of methylisocitric acid in the supernatant of a prpB null-allele mutant. (iv) The expression of prpC and probably also of the other enzymes is regulated and is induced during cultivation on propionic acid or levulinic acid. The putative translational product of prpR (70895 Da) exhibited high similarities to PrpR of Escherichia coli and S. enterica, and might represent a transcriptional activator of the sigma-54 family involved in the regulation of the other prp genes. Since the prp locus of R. eutropha was very different from those of E. coli and S. enterica, an extensive comparison of prp loci available from databases and literature was done, revealing two different classes of prp loci.
OBJECTIVE: Measurements of the serum concentrations of the metabolites homocysteine, cystathionine, methylmalonic acid, and 2-methylcitric acid, which accumulates when vitamin B-12-, folate-, and vitamin B-6-dependent enzymatic reactions are impaired, should provide a better indication of intracellular deficiency of these vitamins.
In Salmonella typhimurium, propionate is oxidized to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. The last step of this cycle, the cleavage of 2-methylisocitrate to succinate and pyruvate, is catalysed by 2-methylisocitrate lyase (EC 4.1.3.30). Methylisocitrate lyase (molecular weight 32 kDa) with a C-terminal polyhistidine affinity tag has been cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified and crystallized under different conditions using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion technique. Crystals belong to the orthogonal space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 63.600, b = 100.670, c = 204.745 A. A complete data set to 2.5 A resolution has been collected using an image-plate detector system mounted on a rotating-anode X-ray generator.
Vitamin B-12 (cobalamin) is a cofactor for only two enzymes, methionine synthase and L-meth- ylmalonyl-CoA mutase. The serum vitamin B-12 con centration has been shown to have limitations in speci ficity and sensitivity in diagnosing vitamin B-12 defi ciency and predicting response to therapy in subjects with clinical deficiency syndromes. Serum methylmalo- nic acid and/or total homocysteine concentrations have been shown to be elevated in almost every patient who has a clinical response to vitamin B-12. In elderly popu lations serum methylmalonic acid concentrations are elevated in the majority (60-66%) of subjects who have elevated total homocysteine concentrations, sug gesting that vitamin B-12 deficiency (with or without associated folate deficiency) and/or chronic renal insuf ficiency may be the primary cause of most of the ele vated total homocysteine concentrations in elderly pop ulations. In such subjects vitamin B-12 and folate con centrations are both frequently in the low or low normal range, making differentiation of the clinical syndromes by use of serum vitamin concentrations problematic. Elevations of 2-methylcitric acid and cystathionine also result from vitamin B-12 deficiency. Serum /Y-methyl- glycine concentrations are normal in cobalamin defi ciency but are increased in 40% of patients deficient in folate. In conclusion, elevations of methylmalonic acid and total homocysteine are very sensitive and specific in diagnosing vitamin B-12 deficiency and can be used to help differentiate vitamin B-12 deficiency from folate deficiency. Elevated total homocysteine concentrations that may have been attributed to folate deficiency in elderly subjects may in many instances be the result of vitamin B-12 deficiency even though serum vitamin B- 12 concentrations are within normal limits. J. Nutr. 126: 1266S-1272S, 1996.
Vomiting, lethargy and metabolic acidosis were the main initial symptoms of metabolic disease in a 1 month old girl. Her older sister had died from a similar disease, considered to be Reye's syndrome, at an age of 15 months. The urine of the present case contained 2-methylcitric acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, N-propionylglycine, 2-hydroxy-3-methylbutyric acid, N-tiglylglycine, 3-hydroxy-valeric acid and glutaric acid. These metabolites are all known to be associated with propionyl-CoA accumulation. Free propionic acid was not detected in the urine. In addition, the urine contained 3-oxo-2-methylvaleric acid and 3-hydroxy-2-methylvaleric acid, probably formed by condensation of two molecules of propionyl-CoA. The identity of these metabolites was confirmed by synthesis. An elevated urinary concentration of maleic acid and fumaric acid was another constant abnormality. The activity of propionyl-CoA carboxylase in leucocytes was about 20% of the normal activity. The girl was treated with a low-protein diet s...
Approximately 20% (7 of 38) of astronauts on International Space Station (ISS) missions have developed measurable ophthalmic changes after flight. This study was conducted to determine if the folate- and vitamin B-12-dependent 1-carbon metabolic pathway is altered in these individuals. Since 2006, we have conducted experiments on the ISS to evaluate nutritional status and related biochemical indices of astronauts before, during, and after flight. Data were modeled to evaluate differences between individuals with ophthalmic changes (n = 5) and those without them (n = 15), all of whom were on ISS missions of 48-215 d. We also determined whether mean preflight serum concentrations of the 1-carbon metabolites and changes in measured cycloplegic refraction after flight were associated. Serum homocysteine (Hcy), cystathionine, 2-methylcitric acid (2MCA), and methylmalonic acid concentrations were 25-45% higher (P < 0.001) in astronauts with ophthalmic changes than in those without them. These differences existed before, during, and after flight. Preflight serum concentrations of Hcy and cystathionine, and mean in-flight serum folate, were correlated with change (postflight relative to preflight) values in refraction (P < 0.05), and preflight serum concentrations of 2MCA tended to be associated (P = 0.06) with ophthalmic changes. The biochemical differences observed in crewmembers with vision issues strongly suggest that their folate- and vitamin B-12-dependent 1-carbon transfer metabolism was affected before and during flight. The consistent differences in markers of 1-carbon metabolism between those who did and those who did not develop changes in vision suggest that polymorphisms in enzymes of this pathway may interact with microgravity to cause these pathophysiologic changes.
Approximately 20% (7 of 38) of astronauts on International Space Station (ISS) missions have developed measurable ophthalmic changes after flight. This study was conducted to determine if the folate-and vitamin B-122dependent 1-carbon metabolic pathway is altered in these individuals. Since 2006, we have conducted experiments on the ISS to evaluate nutritional status and related biochemical indices of astronauts before, during, and after flight. Data were modeled to evaluate differences between individuals with ophthalmic changes (n = 5) and those without them (n = 15), all of whom were on ISS missions of 48-215 d. We also determined whether mean preflight serum concentrations of the 1-carbon metabolites and changes in measured cycloplegic refraction after flight were associated. Serum homocysteine (Hcy), cystathionine, 2-methylcitric acid (2MCA), and methylmalonic acid concentrations were 25-45% higher (P , 0.001) in astronauts with ophthalmic changes than in those without them. These differences existed before, during, and after flight. Preflight serum concentrations of Hcy and cystathionine, and mean in-flight serum folate, were correlated with change (postflight relative to preflight) values in refraction (P , 0.05), and preflight serum concentrations of 2MCA tended to be associated (P = 0.06) with ophthalmic changes. The biochemical differences observed in crewmembers with vision issues strongly suggest that their folate2 and vitamin B-122dependent 1-carbon transfer metabolism was affected before and during flight. The consistent differences in markers of 1-carbon metabolism between those who did and those who did not develop changes in vision suggest that polymorphisms in enzymes of this pathway may interact with microgravity to cause these pathophysiologic changes.
Abstract Methylmalonic acidurias are biochemically characterized by an accumulation of methylmalonic acid and alternative metabolites. An impairment of energy metabolism plays a key role in the pathophysiology of this disease, resulting in neurodegeneration of the basal ganglia and renal failure. It has become the subject of intense debates whether methylmalonic acid is the major toxin, inhibiting respiratory chain complex II. To elucidate whether methylmalonic acid is a respiratory chain inhibitor, we used spectrophotometric analysis of complex II activity in submitochondrial particles from bovine heart, radiometric analysis of 14C-labeled substrates (pyruvate, malate, succinate), and analysis of ATP production in muscle from mice. Methylmalonic acid revealed no direct effects on the respiratory chain function, i.e. on single electron transferring complexes I-IV, ATPase, and mitochondrial transporters. However, we identified a variety of variables that must be carefully controlled to avoid an artificial inhibition of complex II activity. In summary, the study verifies our hypothesis that methylmalonic acid is not the major toxic metabolite in methylmalonic acidurias. Inhibition of respiratory chain and tricarboxylic acid cycle is most likely induced by synergistically acting alternative metabolites, in particular 2-methylcitric acid, malonic acid, and propionyl-CoA.
Abstract In this study strains of Ralstonia eutropha H16 and Pseudomonas putida KT2440 were engineered which are suitable for biotechnological production of 2-methylcitric acid (2MC). Analysis of a previous mutant of R. eutropha able to accumulate 2MC recommended this strain as a candidate for fermentative production of 2MC. This knowledge was used for construction of strains of R. eutropha H16 and P. putida KT2440 capable of enhanced production of 2MC. In both bacteria the chromosomal genes encoding the 2-methyl- cis -aconitate hydratase ( acnM) were disrupted by directed insertion of a copy of an additional 2-methylcitrate synthase gene ( prpC ) yielding strains R. eutropha Δ acnM Re ΩKm prpC Pp and P. putida Δ acnM Pp ΩKm prpC Re . In both strains 2-methylcitrate synthase was expressed under control of the constitutive kanamycin-resistance gene (ΩKm) resulting in up to 20-fold higher specific 2-methylcitrate synthase activities in comparison to the wild type. The disruption of the acnM gene by insertion of prpC led to a propionate- and levulinate-negative phenotype of the engineered strains, and analysis of supernatant of these strains revealed overproduction and accumulation of 2MC in the medium. A two stage cultivation regime comprising an exponential growth phase and a 2MC production phase was developed and applied to both engineered strains for optimum production of 2MC. Whereas gluconate, fructose or succinate were provided as carbon source for the exponential growth phase, a combination of propionate or levulinate as precursor substrate for provision of propionyl-CoA and succinate or fumarate as precursor substrate for provision of oxaloacetate were used in the production phase to make sure that the 2-methylcitrate synthase was provided with their substrates. Employing the optimised feeding regime P. putida Δ acnM Pp ΩKm prpC Re and R. eutropha Δ acnM Re ΩKm prpC Pp produced 2MC up to maximal concentrations of 7.2 g/L or 26.5 mM and 19.2 g/L or 70.5 mM, respectively, during 144 h of cultivation.
Mammalian cells contain two Cbl-dependent enzymes, L-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase and methionine synthase. The former requires adenosyl-Cbl and catalyzes the conversion of L-methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA. The latter requires CH3-Cbl and catalyzes the conversion of 5-CH3-tetrahydrofolate and homocysteine to tetrahydrofolate and methionine, respectively. Biochemical abnormalities related to a decrease in the activity of methionine synthase are thought to be responsible for the indistinguishable hematologic abnormalities seen in both Cbl and folate deficiency. The biochemical basis for the neuropsychiatric abnormalities seen in Cbl deficiency, but not in folate deficiency, is not known although hypotheses have been proposed that implicate one or the other of the two Cbl-dependent enzymes. Recent studies have shown that levels of serum methylmalonic acid, 2-methylcitric acids I and II, total homocysteine, and cystathionine are elevated in most patients with Cbl deficiency and that total homocysteine, cystathionine, N,N-dimethylglycine, and N-methylglycine are elevated in most patients with folate deficiency. Analysis of these metabolic abnormalities in various patient groups fails to support hypotheses that either L-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase or methionine synthase alone are responsible for the neuropsychiatric abnormalities. We suggest that they may result from a third, unknown mammalian Cbl-dependent enzyme or from a combined deficiency of both Cbl-dependent enzymes together with an unknown genetic or environmental factor.
necator has been used for polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA) production with potential commercial production. In addition to PHAs, C. necator has been engineered to produce a variety of compounds 9 including: 2-methylcitric acid 10 , ferulic acid 11 , isopropanol and 3-methyl-1-butanol 12 -under heterotrophic conditions. More recently, lithotrophic conversion of CO 2 (via aerobic oxidation of hydrogen) by engineered strains has produced: 600 mg/L isopropanol, and 220 mg/L C 4 / C 5 fusel alcohols 13 , alkanes and alkenes at 4.4 mg/L 14 , methyl ketones at 180 mg/L 15 , and stable-isotope-labeled arginine at 7.1% of dry cell weight (DCW) 16 .
Abstract Summary In a prospective, multicentre, double-blind controlled study, the effect of an intramuscular vitamin supplement containing 1 mg vitamin B12, 1·1 mg folate, and 5 mg vitamin B6 on serum concentrations of methylmalonic acid (MMA), homocysteine (HCYS), 2-methylcitric acid (2-MCA), and cystathionine (CYSTA) was compared with that of placebo in 175 elderly subjects living at home and 110 in hospital. Vitamin supplement and placebo were administered eight times over a 3-week period. Vitamin supplement but not placebo significantly reduced all four metabolite concentrations at the end of the study in both study groups. The maximum effects of treatment were usually seen within 5-12 days. Initially elevated metabolite concentrations returned to normal in a higher proportion of the vitamin than of the placebo group: 92% vs 20% for HYCS; 82% vs 20% for MMA; 62% vs 25% for 2-MCA; and 42% vs 25% for CYSTA. The response rate to vitamin supplements supports the notion that metabolic evidence of vitamin deficiency is common in the elderly, even in the presence of normal serum vitamin levels. Metabolite assays permit identification of elderly subjects who may benefit from vitamin supplements.
The branched chain amino acids isoleucine, valine, and leucine are essential nutrients for human growth and development (Adibi 1976 ). The enzymes methylmalonyl-C o A m u t a s e , p r o p i o n y l -C o A c a r b o x y l a s e , a n d isovaleryl-CoA dehydrogenase play pivotal roles in the metabolism of these amino acids. Deficiencies of these enzymes result in three classic organic acidemias, methylmalonic acidemia (MMA; OMIM #251000, #251100, #251110, #277400, #277410), propionic acidemia (PA; OMIM #606054), and isovaleric acidemia (IVA; OMIM #243500). MMA and PA are characterized by the potentially lethal accumulation of toxic Communicating Editor: Avihu Boneh Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article (https://doi.org/10.1007/s10545-018-0244-6) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users. metabolites, mainly 2-methylcitric acid, malonic acid, and propionyl-CoA (Kölker et al. 2003; Schwab et al. 2006) .
We describe the construction and use of two sets of vectors for the over-expression and purification of protein from Escherichia coli. The set of pTEV plasmids (pTEV3, 4, 5) directs the synthesis of a recombinant protein with a N-terminal hexahistidine (His6) tag that is removable by the tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease. The set of pKLD plasmids (pKLD66, 116) directs the synthesis of a recombinant protein that contains a N-terminal His6 and maltose-binding protein tag in tandem, which can also be removed with TEV protease. The usefulness of these plasmids is illustrated by the rapid, high-yield purification of the 2-methylcitrate dehydratase (PrpD) protein of Salmonella enterica, and the 2-methylaconitate isomerase (PrpF) protein of Shewanella oneidensis, two enzymes involved in the catabolism of propionate to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle.
Abstract Propionic acidemia is caused by lack of propionyl-CoA carboxylase activity. It is biochemically characterized by accumulation of propionic (PA) and 3-hydroxypropionic (3OHPA) acids and clinically by severe encephalopathy and cardiomyopathy. High urinary excretion of maleic acid (MA) and 2-methylcitric acid (2MCA) is also found in the affected patients. Considering that the underlying mechanisms of cardiac disease in propionic acidemia are practically unknown, we investigated the effects of PA, 3OHPA, MA and 2MCA (0.05–5 mM) on important mitochondrial functions in isolated rat heart mitochondria, as well as in crude heart homogenates and cultured cardiomyocytes. MA markedly inhibited state 3 (ADP-stimulated), state 4 (non-phosphorylating) and uncoupled (CCCP-stimulated) respiration in mitochondria supported by pyruvate plus malate or α-ketoglutarate associated with reduced ATP production, whereas PA and 3OHPA provoked less intense inhibitory effects and 2MCA no alterations at all. MA-induced impaired respiration was attenuated by coenzyme A supplementation. In addition, MA significantly inhibited α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase activity. Similar data were obtained in heart crude homogenates and permeabilized cardiomyocytes. MA, and PA to a lesser degree, also decreased mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), NAD(P)H content and Ca2+ retention capacity, and caused swelling in Ca2+-loaded mitochondria. Noteworthy, ΔΨm collapse and mitochondrial swelling were fully prevented or attenuated by cyclosporin A and ADP, indicating the involvement of mitochondrial permeability transition. It is therefore proposed that disturbance of mitochondrial energy and calcium homeostasis caused by MA, as well as by PA and 3OHPA to a lesser extent, may be involved in the cardiomyopathy commonly affecting propionic acidemic patients.
Data from the Nutritional Status Assessment protocol provided biochemical evidence that the folatedependent 1-carbon metabolic pathway may be altered in individuals experiencing vision-related issues during and after space flight (1). Briefly, serum concentrations of homocysteine, cystathionine, 2methylcitric acid, and methylmalonic acid were significantly (Figure 1, P<0.001) higher (25-45%) in astronauts with ophthalmic changes than in those without such changes (1). These differences existed before, during, and after flight. Serum folate tended to be lower (P=0.06) in individuals with ophthalmic changes. Preflight serum concentrations of cystathionine and 2-methylcitric acid, and mean in-flight serum folate, were significantly (P<0.05) correlated with postflight changes in refraction.
Propionate metabolism in Salmonella typhimurium occurs via 2-methylcitric acid cycle. The last step of this cycle, the cleavage of 2-methylisocitrate to succinate and pyruvate, is catalysed by 2-methylisocitrate lyase (PrpB). Here we report the X-ray crystal structure of the native and the pyruvate/$Mg^{2+}$ bound PrpB from S. typhimurium, determined at 2.1 and 2.3 A, respectively. The structure closely resembles that of the Escherichia coli enzyme. Unlike the E. coli PrpB, $Mg^{2+}$ could not be located in the native Salmonella PrpB. Only in pyruvate bound PrpB structure, $Mg^{2+}$ was found coordinated with pyruvate. Binding of pyruvate to PrpB seems to induce movement of the $Mg^{2+}$ by 2.5 A from its position found in E. coli native PrpB. In both the native enzyme and pyruvate/$Mg^{2+}$ bound forms, the active site loop is completely disordered. Examination of the pocket in which pyruvate and glyoxalate bind to 2-methylisocitrate lyase and isocitrate lyase, respectively, reveals plausible rationale for different substrate specificities of these two enzymes. Structural similarities in substrate and metal atom binding site as well as presence of similar residues in the active site suggest possible similarities in the reaction mechanism.
Accumulation of propionylcarnitine (C3) in neonatal dried blood spots (DBS) is indicative of inborn errors of propionate metabolism including propionic acidemia (PA), methylmalonic aciduria (MMA), and cobalamin (Cbl) metabolic defects. Concentrations of C3 in affected newborns overlap with healthy individuals rendering this marker neither specific nor sensitive. While a conservative C3 cutoff together with relevant acylcarnitines ratios improve screening sensitivity, existing mass spectrometric methods in newborn screening laboratories are inadequate at improving testing specificity. Therefore, using the original screening DBS, we sought to measure 2-methylcitric acid (MCA), a pathognomonic hallmark of C3 disorders to decrease the false positive rate and improve the positive predictive value of C3 disorders. MCA was derivatized with 4-[2-(N,N-dimethylamino)ethylaminosulfonyl]-7-(2-aminoethylamino)-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (DAABD-AE). No separate extraction step was required and derivatization was performed directly using a 3.2-mm disc of DBS as a sample (65°C for 45 min). The reaction mixture was analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. MCA was well separated and eluted at 2.3 min with a total run time of 7 min. The median and (range) of MCA of 0.06 μmol/L (0–0.63) were in excellent agreement with the literature. The method was applied retrospectively on DBS samples from established patients with PA, MMA, Cbl C, Cbl F, maternal vitamin B12 deficiency (n = 20) and controls (n = 337). Comparison with results obtained by another method was satisfactory (n = 252). This method will be applied as a second tier test for samples which trigger positive PA or MMA results by the primary newborn screening method.
Abbreviations: B 12 , vitamin B 12 ; holoTC, holotranscobalamin; MCA, 2-methylcitric acid; MMA, methylmalonic acid; tHcy, homocysteine.
Burkholderia sacchari IPT101(T) induced the formation of 2-methylcitrate synthase and 2-methylisocitrate lyase when it was cultivated in the presence of propionic acid. The prp locus of B. sacchari IPT101(T) is required for utilization of propionic acid as a sole carbon source and is relevant for incorporation of 3-hydroxyvalerate (3HV) into copolyesters, and it was cloned and sequenced. Five genes (prpR, prpB, prpC, acnM, and ORF5) exhibited identity to genes located in the prp loci of other gram-negative bacteria. prpC encodes a 2-methylcitrate synthase with a calculated molecular mass of 42,691 Da. prpB encodes a 2-methylisocitrate lyase. The levels of PrpC and PrpB activity were much lower in propionate-negative mutant IPT189 obtained from IPT101(T) and were heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. The acnM gene (ORF4) and ORF5, which are required for conversion of 2-methylcitric acid to 2-methylisocitric acid in Ralstonia eutropha HF39, are also located in the prp locus. The translational product of ORF1 (prpR) had a calculated molecular mass of 70,598 Da and is a putative regulator of the prp cluster. Three additional open reading frames (ORF6, ORF7, and ORF8) whose functions are not known were located adjacent to ORF5 in the prp locus of B. sacchari, and these open reading frames have not been found in any other prp operon yet. In summary, the organization of the prp genes of B. sacchari is similar but not identical to the organization of these genes in other bacteria investigated recently. In addition, this study provided a rationale for the previously shown increased molar contents of 3HV in copolyesters accumulated by a B. sacchari mutant since it was revealed in this study that the mutant is defective in prpC.
Homocysteine can be methylated to form methionine by the cobalamin-(Cbl) and folate-dependent enzyme, methionine synthase; serum levels of total homocysteine are elevated in greater than 95% of patients with either Cbl or folate deficiency. Homocysteine can also condense with serine to form cystathionine in a pyridoxal phosphate-dependent reaction catalyzed by cystathionine &synthase. Cystathionine is subsequently cleaved to cysteine and aketobutyrate by the pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzyme y-cystathionase. To assess levels of cystathionine in Cbl and folate deficiency, we developed a new capillary gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric assay and measured cystathionine in the serum of normal subjects and patients with clinically confirmed deficiencies of these vi- Serum assays for metabolites involved in Cbl-and folate-dependent pathways have been found to be useful in For example, in Cbl deficiency, serum levels of methylmalonic acid, 2-methylcitric acid, and/or homocysteine are elevated in about 95% of patients.*-" In folate deficiency, serum-total homocysteine has been found to be elevated in 95% of patients.'.'"
The function of the PrpR protein of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 was studied in vitro and in vivo. The PrpR protein is a sensor of 2-methylcitrate (2-MC), an intermediate of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle used by this bacterium to convert propionate to pyruvate. PrpR was unresponsive to citrate (a close structural analogue of 2-MC) and to propionate, suggesting that 2-MC, not propionate, is the metabolite that signals the presence of propionate in the environment to S. enterica. prpR alleles encoding mutant proteins with various levels of 2-MC-independent activity were isolated. All lesions causing constitutive PrpR activity were mapped to the N-terminal domain of the protein. Removal of the entire sensing domain resulted in a protein (PrpR(c)) with the highest 2-MC-independent activity. Residue A162 is critical to 2-MC sensing, since the mutant PrpR protein PrpR(A162T) was as active as the PrpR(c) protein in the absence of 2-MC. DNA footprinting studies identified the site in the region between prpR and the prpBCDE operon to which the PrpR protein binds. Analysis of the binding-site sequence revealed two sites with dyad symmetry. Results from DNase I footprinting assays suggested that the PrpR protein may have higher affinity for the site proximal to the P(prpBCDE) promoter.
The totally gastrectomized (TGX) rat is a new experimental model for studying the pathogenesis of cobalamin (Cbl)-deficient myelopathy, i.e., subacute combined degeneration, total gastrectomy (TG) serving as a surgical paradigm of human pernicious anemia. We determined the serum levels of some biochemical indicators of Cbl deficiency in TGX rats at 2 to 10 months after TG. Methylmalonic acid (MMA) rose within 2 months and progressively increased thereafter until the end of the investigation period. 2-Methylcitric acid (MCA) rose significantly by 6 months and showed a further increment 4 months later. Homocysteine was only clearly elevated much later than the serum MMA, i.e., 10 months after the operation. The concentrations of MMA, MCA, and cystathionine were increased in kidney, liver, and spinal cord (SC) of TGX rats at 10 months. Chronic treatment of TGX rats with Cbl greatly decreased the serum levels of all the metabolic indicators of Cbl deficiency. Chronic peroral administration of the antibiotic lincomycin to TGX rats in an attempt to suppress the enteric flora markedly decreased serum MMA levels. Only Cbl, however, given either for the first 2 months after TG or for the third and fourth postoperative months (i.e., after SC abnormalities had already appeared) significantly decreased the severity of spongy vacuolation in SC white matter, although not completely preventing or repairing the neuropathological damage. Therefore, neither the early impairment in TGX rats of the Cbl-dependent methylmalonyl-coenzyme A mutase reaction nor the more delayed impairment of the Cbl-dependent methionine synthase step, as reflected by changes in serum metabolite levels, seems to be causally related to the TG-induced spongy vacuolation in SC white matter.
We describe the construction and use of two sets of vectors for the over-expression and purification of protein from Escherichia coli. The set of pTEV plasmids (pTEV3, 4, 5) directs the synthesis of a recombinant protein with a N-terminal hexahistidine (His(6)) tag that is removable by the tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease. The set of pKLD plasmids (pKLD66, 116) directs the synthesis of a recombinant protein that contains a N-terminal His(6) and maltose-binding protein tag in tandem, which can also be removed with TEV protease. The usefulness of these plasmids is illustrated by the rapid, high-yield purification of the 2-methylcitrate dehydratase (PrpD) protein of Salmonella enterica, and the 2-methylaconitate isomerase (PrpF) protein of Shewanella oneidensis, two enzymes involved in the catabolism of propionate to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle.
In Salmonella typhimurium, propionate is oxidized to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. The last step of this cycle, the cleavage of 2-methylisocitrate to succinate and pyruvate, is catalysed by 2-methylisocitrate lyase (EC 4.1.3.30). Methylisocitrate lyase (molecular weight 32 kDa) with a C-terminal polyhistidine affinity tag has been cloned and overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified and crystallized under different conditions using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion technique. Crystals belong to the orthogonal space group P2(1)2(1)2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 63.600, b = 100.670, c = 204.745 Angstrom. A complete data set to 2.5 Angstrom resolution has been collected using an image-plate detector system mounted on a rotating-anode X-ray generator.
We describe the construction and use of two sets of vectors for the over-expression and purification of protein from Escherichia coli. The set of pTEV plasmids (pTEV3, 4, 5) directs the synthesis of a recombinant protein with a N-terminal hexahistidine (His 6 ) tag that is removable by the tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease. The set of pKLD plasmids (pKLD66, 116) directs the synthesis of a recombinant protein that contains a N-terminal His 6 and maltose-binding protein tag in tandem, which can also be removed with TEV protease. The usefulness of these plasmids is illustrated by the rapid, high-yield purification of the 2-methylcitrate dehydratase (PrpD) protein of Salmonella enterica, and the 2-methylaconitate isomerase (PrpF) protein of Shewanella oneidensis, two enzymes involved in the catabolism of propionate to pyruvate via the 2-methylcitric acid cycle.
Bacillus subtilis is an industrially important organism because of its ability to produce enzymes and antibiotics on a commercial scale. It is considered the Gram positive counterpart of E. coli in terms of its genetic and molecular biological accessibility. Also, it is a model organism for the study of sporulation, an example of prokaryotic cellular differentiation. Sporulation involves several groups of genes that encode apparent metabolic pathways, many of which remain uncharacterized at the biochemical level. The mmg (mother cell metabolic gene) operon in B. subtilis strain 168 is one of these groups, and is transcribed only during an early stage of sporulation. This operon contains mmgABC, which are similar to genes from fatty acid metabolism, and mmgDE and yqiQ, which encode homologs of enzymes involved in the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. The focus of this work will be on the biochemical characterization of the mmgB protein, which is similar by sequence to 3-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase from a wide variety of organisms. So far, we successfully cloned and overexpressed mmgB, and purified the protein at a yield of 4.0 mg/liter of culture. A spectrophotometric assay and mass spectrometry showed that this enzyme indeed possesses 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase activity (E.C. 1.1.1.157) for the production of acetoacetyl-CoA. This oxidation specifically requires NADP+, and has an optimal pH of 9.8. We will describe these results including the steady-state kinetics that the enzyme follows. As previously said, the downstream 3 ORF's of the mmg operon - mmgD, mmgE and yqiQ are proposed to encode for the methylcitric acid cycle. Also, as a part of a master's thesis, it has been shown by the Reddick lab that mmgD encodes for a citrate/methylcitrate synthase with a substrate preference for propionyl-CoA over acetyl-CoA. This fact encouraged us even more with reference to the involvement of the mmg operon in the methylcitric acid cycle, a pathway for propionate metabolism. So, our goal was to create conditional knockout mutants of the mmg operon and study the growth characteristics of the organism by feeding studies using propionate as sole carbon source. Eventually, we would also want to perform some NMR analysis of the cultures of the mutants for the intermediates of methylcitric acid cycle/propionate metabolism.
Background: It has been suggested that the major metabolic block in the methionine catabolic pathway in cirrhotics exists at the level of the enzyme S-adenosylmethionine synthetase because in previous studies using conventional amino-acid analyzers, no intermediates of transmethylation/transsulfuration were found to accumulate in plasma downstream of S-adenosylmethionine synthesis. We therefore measured serum concentration intermediates of methionine transmethylation/transsulfuration using an improved gas chromatography/mass spectrometry technique. Methods: Serum concentrations of methionine, homocysteine, cystathionine, N,N-dimethylglycine, N-methylglycine, methylmalonic acid, 2-methylcitric acid and α-aminobutyric acid were determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry in 108 consecutive patients with liver cirrhosis at Child stages A (mild cirrhosis, n = 27) and B/C (severe cirrhosis, n = 81), 18 outpatients with non-cirrhotic liver disease, and 55 healthy individuals. Results: Serum levels of methionine, N,N-dimethylglycine, N-methylglycine, cystathionine, and homocysteine were significantly higher in patients at Child stages B/C compared with those of healthy controls (P < 0.01), and they were also significantly higher than in patients with non-cirrhotic liver disease (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05 for homocysteine, respectively). They also correlated with the Child-Pugh score (P < 0.01). Homocysteine, cystathionine, N,N-dimethylglycine, N-methylglycine, methylmalonic acid, and 2-methylcitric acid correlated with serum creatinine. The mean cystathionine concentration was significantly higher in patients with creatinine ≥1.4 mg/dl than in patients with normal creatinine values (P < 0.01). However, the differences between cirrhotics and healthy controls were still significant after correcting for creatinine. Conclusions: Our data provides indirect evidence for two hitherto unrecognized alterations of methionine metabolism in cirrhotics, i.e. impairment of the transsulfuration of homocysteine at the level of cystathionine degradation and a shift in remethylation of homocysteine towards the betaine-homocysteine-methyltransferase reaction.
The association of Hey with plasma proteins has important implications for Hey measurements. Free Hey becomes progressively bound to plasma protein(s) ex vivo. Such redistribution takes place within 24 h at room temperature. Also, most Hey in stored plasma is SBD-F and ABD-F are halogenosulfonylbenzofurazans that have been used for determination of thiols, including Hey (57). ABD-F reacts quantitatively with thiols, including Hey, at 50#{176}C at pH 8.0-9.5 for 5-10 mm (58), whereas the less-reactive SBD-F requires more drastic conditions (pH 9.5 and 60#{176}C for 1 h). SBD-F is not reactive towards amines (59), whereas ABD-F also derivatizes amines but with a low fluorescence yield (57 and N-methylglycine (65, 66) , and the fact that the assay has been verified for urine samples (12). With a slight modification, methylmalonic acid (60), 2-methylcitric acid (60), and betaine (66) in serum can also be determined.
Cells generate propionyl-CoA from several different processes, including the catabolism of odd chain fatty acids, the decarboxylation of succinate, the catabolism of amino acids (e.g. threonine), and the activation of propionate (10 -12). Propionate is a powerful inhibitor of cell growth that is widely used as a food preservative. Reports in the literature suggest that propionyl-CoA may be responsible for the cytotoxic effects of propionate. Although the direct effects of propionyl-CoA are unclear, it is clear that cells avoid accumulating this metabolite (13-15). The cell maintains low levels of propionyl-CoA by using it as a source of carbon and energy. The predominant pathway for propionate degradation in prokaryotes and eukaryotes is the 2-methylcitric acid cycle, which converts propionate to pyruvate via reactions similar to those of the Krebs cycle (supplemental Fig. S6) (16, 17) .
We evaluated the association of moderate hyperhomocyst(e)inemia and vitamin B-12 status with coronary artery disease (CAD) and left ventricular ejection fraction in 367 elderly patients undergoing coronary angiography. The extent of CAD was scored, left ventricular ejection fraction was assessed and vitamins B-12 and folate and the metabolites homocyst(e)ine, methylmalonic acid and 2-methylcitric acid were measured. There was no significant trend in change in homocyst(e)ine as the extent of CAD increased. There was an association between vitamin B-12 deficiency, i.e., vitamin B-12 < 221 pmol/l and homocyst(e)ine > 16 nmol/ml and low left ventricular ejection fraction (P = 0.014). Of 105 samples, selected for vitamin B-12 < 221 pmol/l or high normal vitamin B-12 and folate levels, metabolites including methylmalonic acid revealed a specific diagnosis of vitamin B-12 deficiency in 18 patients. The trend among these vitamin B-12-deficient patients and low left ventricular ejection fraction was significant (P = 0.028). In vitro studies on rat heart revealed that nitrous oxide in the presence of 200 microM/l methionine reduced contractility of the heart. In conclusion, vitamin B-12-deficient patients had significantly lower left ventricular ejection fractions than nonvitamin B-12-deficient patients. Whether low left ventricular ejection fraction results in malabsorption of vitamin B-12 and vitamin B-12 deficiency, or conversely, whether vitamin B-12 and its marker, elevated homocyst(e)ine, depress left ventricular function warrants further evaluation.
Accumulation of 2-methylcitric acid (2MCA) is observed in methylmalonic and propionic acidemias, which are clinically characterized by severe neurological symptoms. The exact pathogenetic mechanisms of brain abnormalities in these diseases are poorly established and very little has been reported on the role of 2MCA. In the present work we found that 2MCA markedly inhibited ADP-stimulated and uncoupled respiration in mitochondria supported by glutamate, with a less significant inhibition in pyruvate plus malate respiring mitochondria. However, no alterations occurred when α-ketoglutarate or succinate was used as respiratory substrates, suggesting a defect on glutamate oxidative metabolism. It was also observed that 2MCA decreased ATP formation in glutamate plus malate or pyruvate plus malate-supported mitochondria. Furthermore, 2MCA inhibited glutamate dehydrogenase activity at concentrations as low as 0.5 mM. Kinetic studies revealed that this inhibitory effect was competitive in relation to glutamate. In contrast, assays of osmotic swelling in non-respiring mitochondria suggested that 2MCA did not significantly impair mitochondrial glutamate transport. Finally, 2MCA provoked a significant decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and induced swelling in Ca2+-loaded mitochondria supported by different substrates. These effects were totally prevented by cyclosporine A plus ADP or ruthenium red, indicating induction of mitochondrial permeability transition. Taken together, our data strongly indicate that 2MCA behaves as a potent inhibitor of glutamate oxidation by inhibiting glutamate dehydrogenase activity and as a permeability transition inducer, disturbing mitochondrial energy homeostasis. We presume that 2MCA-induced mitochondrial deleterious effects may contribute to the pathogenesis of brain damage in patients affected by methylmalonic and propionic acidemias. ::: ::: ::: We propose that brain glutamate oxidation is disturbed by 2-methylcitric acid (2MCA), which accumulates in tissues from patients with propionic and methylmalonic acidemias because of a competitive inhibition of glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) activity. 2MCA also induced mitochondrial permeability transition (PT) and decreased ATP generation in brain mitochondria. We believe that these pathomechanisms may be involved in the neurological dysfunction of these diseases.
We previously identified the prpBCDE operon, which encodes catabolic functions required for propionate catabolism in Salmonella typhimurium. Results from (13)C-labeling experiments have identified the route of propionate breakdown and determined the biochemical role of each Prp enzyme in this pathway. The identification of catabolites accumulating in wild-type and mutant strains was consistent with propionate breakdown through the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. Our experiments demonstrate that the alpha-carbon of propionate is oxidized to yield pyruvate. The reactions are catalyzed by propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA) synthetase (PrpE), 2-methylcitrate synthase (PrpC), 2-methylcitrate dehydratase (probably PrpD), 2-methylisocitrate hydratase (probably PrpD), and 2-methylisocitrate lyase (PrpB). In support of this conclusion, the PrpC enzyme was purified to homogeneity and shown to have 2-methylcitrate synthase activity in vitro. (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and negative-ion electrospray ionization mass spectrometry identified 2-methylcitrate as the product of the PrpC reaction. Although PrpC could use acetyl-CoA as a substrate to synthesize citrate, kinetic analysis demonstrated that propionyl-CoA is the preferred substrate.
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium LT2 showed increased sensitivity to propionate when the 2-methylcitric acid cycle was blocked. A derivative of a prpC mutant (which lacked 2-methylcitrate synthase activity) resistant to propionate was isolated, and the mutation responsible for the newly acquired resistance to propionate was mapped to the citrate synthase (gltA) gene. These results suggested that citrate synthase activity was the source of the increased sensitivity to propionate observed in the absence of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. DNA sequencing of the wild-type and mutant gltA alleles revealed that the ATG start codon of the wild-type gene was converted to the rare GTG start codon in the revertant strain. This result suggested that lower levels of this enzyme were present in the mutant. Consistent with this change, cell-free extracts of the propionate-resistant strain contained 12-fold less citrate synthase activity. This was interpreted to mean that, in the wild-type strain, high levels of citrate synthase activity were the source of a toxic metabolite. In vitro experiments performed with homogeneous citrate synthase enzyme indicated that this enzyme was capable of synthesizing 2-methylcitrate from propionyl-CoA and oxaloacetate. This result lent further support to the in vivo data, which suggested that citrate synthase was the source of a toxic metabolite.
We previously identified the prpBCDE operon, which encodes catabolic functions required for propionate catabolism in Salmonella typhimurium. Results from 13 C-labeling experiments have identified the route of propionate breakdown and determined the biochemical role of each Prp enzyme in this pathway. The identification of catabolites accumulating in wild-type and mutant strains was consistent with propionate breakdown through the 2-methylcitric acid cycle. Our experiments demonstrate that the ␣-carbon of propionate is oxidized to yield pyruvate. The reactions are catalyzed by propionyl coenzyme A (propionyl-CoA) synthetase (PrpE), 2-methylcitrate synthase (PrpC), 2-methylcitrate dehydratase (probably PrpD), 2-methylisocitrate hydratase (probably PrpD), and 2-methylisocitrate lyase (PrpB). In support of this conclusion, the PrpC enzyme was purified to homogeneity and shown to have 2-methylcitrate synthase activity in vitro.
Vitamin B-12 (cobalamin) is a cofactor for only two enzymes, methionine synthase and L-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase. The serum vitamin B-12 concentration has been shown to have limitations in specificity and sensitivity in diagnosing vitamin B-12 deficiency and predicting response to therapy in subjects with clinical deficiency syndromes. Serum methylmalonic acid and/or total homocysteine concentrations have been shown to be elevated in almost every patient who has a clinical response to vitamin B-12. In elderly populations serum methylmalonic acid concentrations are elevated in the majority (60-66%) of subjects who have elevated total homocysteine concentrations, suggesting that vitamin B-12 deficiency (with or without associated folate deficiency) and/or chronic renal insufficiency may be the primary cause of most of the elevated total homocysteine concentrations in elderly populations. In such subjects vitamin B-12 and folate concentrations are both frequently in the low or low normal range, making differentiation of the clinical syndromes by use of serum vitamin concentrations problematic. Elevations of 2-methylcitric acid and cystathionine also result from vitamin B-12 deficiency. Serum N-methylglycine concentrations are normal in cobalamin deficiency but are increased in 40% of patients deficient in folate. In conclusion, elevations of methylmalonic acid and total homocysteine are very sensitive and specific in diagnosing vitamin B-12 deficiency and can be used to help differentiate vitamin B-12 deficiency from folate deficiency. Elevated total homocysteine concentrations that may have been attributed to folate deficiency in elderly subjects may in many instances be the result of vitamin B-12 deficiency even though serum vitamin B-12 concentrations are within normal limits.
BACKGROUND ::: Despite some clinical applications of 2-methylcitric acid (2-MCA) determination in urine and amniotic fluid, a diagnostic use of 2-MCA levels in serum is not common practice. This could be related to the complexity of the assay, or possibly to unawareness of other feasible clinical applications. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: The levels of the diastereomers 2-MCA I and II in human serum were determined by GC-MS based on a method using a pulsed splitless injection technique. A stable isotope dilution principle was modified considering the diastereomer ratio and impurities of the internal standard. Precision parameters as well as recovery rates of the assay were determined. Reference intervals for 2-MCA(total), 2-MCA I and II levels were obtained in 52 healthy volunteers (31 female, 21 male, mean age 41.7+/-14.4 years). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: 2-MCA was readily detected in each sample of serum, as well as in urine, cerebrospinal fluid and amniotic fluid. The limit of detection was 10 nmol/l for 2-MCA(total). The internal standard showed a diastereomer ratio of 2-MCA II-d3 to 2-MCA I-d3 of 0.83+/-0.05, its chemical purity had to be corrected to 90.5+/-0.5%. In concentrations of 446, 750 and 1256 nmol/l 2-MCA(total), recovery rates of 98.5, 93.7 and 88% with a mean intra-assay RSD of 1.5% were determined. The day-to-day precision was 10% RSD (SD 40 nmol/l) for 2-MCA(total) obtained with a pooled serum sample at a concentration of 401 nmol/l 2-MCA(total) over a period of 5 months (n=17). The normal range for 2-MCA(total) in human serum was calculated as 81-266 nmol/l confirming previous findings. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The GC-MS assay using a pulsed splitless injection procedure ensures a good response to differing concentrations of 2-MCA in various specimens. Considering exact determination of the diastereomer ratio as well as the purity of the internal standard, the assay offers good precision and recovery for 2-MCA I and II levels in serum.
BACKGROUND ::: Total homocysteine (tHcy) and advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of vascular damage. This study aimed to investigate whether elevated serum levels of the AGEs pentosidine, N(epsilon)-carboxymethyllysine (CML) and imidazolone; tHcy, cystathionine, methylmalonic acid (MMA), and 2-methylcitric acid (2-MCA), as well as C-reactive protein (CRP), are related to a higher risk for cardiovascular events. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: A total of 232 patients with chronic kidney diseases (mean age 57.6 +/- 13.1 years, 82 female and 150 male); 99 with chronic renal failure (CRF), 84 maintenance hemodialysis patients and 49 renal transplant recipients were followed for 2 years. The relationship between the parameters of interest, conventional risk factors and elevated levels of CRP with cardiovascular events was tested in all subjects by the Cox proportional hazards model. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Mean serum levels of AGEs, tHcy, and of the metabolites were found to be significantly increased in all three groups compared to the healthy subjects (P < 0.01, respectively). Fifty-three cardiovascular events occurred during follow-up; a total of 40 patients died. Final multivariate analysis showed diabetes (RR 2.06, 95% CI 1.17-3.60, P= 0.013), end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (RR 4.88, 95% CI 2.40-9.89, P < 0.001) and elevated CRP levels (RR 2.00, 95% CI 1.11-3.60, P= 0.021) as independent risk factors for cardiovascular events. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Data from a group consisting of patients with CRF, patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis treatment, and renal transplant recipients provide evidence that conventional risk factors such as the presence of diabetes, ESRD, as well as elevated levels of the considered risk factor CRP, seem to play a more important role for cardiovascular outcome in patients with chronic kidney disease than elevated levels of AGEs, tHcy, and related metabolites. The evidence suggests that routine CRP measurement can be recommended in cases of chronic renal insufficiency.
BACKGROUND ::: Increased plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) levels are an independent risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity in patients with normal and impaired renal function, including stable renal transplant recipients (RTRs). Plasma concentrations of the metabolites of Hcy, such as cystathionine (Cys), methylmalonic acid (MMA), 2-methylcitric acid (MC), and its diastereomers MCI and MCII have been reported in only a few articles. We therefore looked for the serum concentration of these metabolites and their relationship to renal function, cardiovascular diseases, the immunosuppressive treatment, and serum concentrations of cobalamin and folate. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Fifty RTRs (mean age 50.4 +/- 11.8 years, 35.9 +/- 44.4 months after kidney transplantation) and 35 controls (NP; mean age 43.5 +/- 14.4 years) were studied. Total Hcy and its metabolites were measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Total Hcy, MMA, Cys, and MC were elevated twofold to sixfold as compared with NP, with a significant interrelationship between these compounds. With the exception of Cys, they were significantly correlated with serum creatinine. Serum folate levels were inversely correlated with tHcy, Cys and cobalamin with MMA and the ratio of MCI/MCII. There was no correlation between tHcy concentration and its metabolites with immunosuppressive treatment (CsA vs. FK506), clinical history, or current findings of cardiovascular complications and blood pressure profile. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSION ::: Prospective studies are needed to find out whether the lowering or normalization of serum concentrations of tHcy and its metabolites due to treatment with B vitamins should be achieved to reduce the cardiovascular risk and improve the long-term outcome of allografts and of patients.
Background. Total homocysteine (tHcy) and advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of vascular damage. This study aimed to investigate whether elevated serum levels of the AGEs pentosidine, N ecarboxymethyllysine (CML) and imidazolone; tHcy, cystathionine, methylmalonic acid (MMA), and 2-methylcitric acid (2-MCA), as well as C-reactive protein (CRP), are related to a higher risk for cardiovascular events.
Colonies of the gram-negative bacterium Ralstonia eutropha are usually unpigmented, and only accumulation of polyhydroxyalkanoic acids results in opaque colonies. When a genomic library of R. eutropha HF39 was constructed in Escherichia coli XL1-Blue to study the genes of the 2-methylcitric acid cycle in R. eutropha (Brämer and Steinbüchel, submitted for publication), blue-pigmented E. coli transformants occurred at a frequency of approximately 1 in 500. Production of pigments, identified as indigo (15), by E. coli recombinant strains harboring genes of Pseudomonas and Rhodococcus species has been described by other workers (6, 7, 12, 14) . In this report we describe identification of the blue pigment as indigo, cloning and expression of the open reading frame responsible for indigo formation, and experiments examining the physiological background of indigo formation in recombinant E. coli strains.
