The in vitro susceptibility of eight strains of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) to E-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (BVDU) was examined in human embryonic fibroblasts by the following techniques: inhibition of focus formation by either cell-free VZV (4-day assay) or cell-associated VZV (2-day assay), inhibition of viral antigen formation (2-day assay), and inhibition of viral cytopathogenicity (15-day assay). The 50% inhibitory dose (ID50) of BVDU ranged from 0.001 microgram/ml (2-day assay) to 0.01 microgram/ml (15-day assay). BVDU appeared highly selective in its anti-VZV activity since even at concentrations as high as 100 micrograms/ml, BVDU did not markedly affect the viability of the host cells. The ID50 of BVDU for VZV was comparable to that of IVDU (E-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine). Both drugs inhibited the replication of VZV at a much lower concentration than did other antiviral compounds such as iododeoxyuridine, ethyldeoxyuridine, arabinosylcytosine, arabinosyladenine, phosphonoacetic acid, iododeoxycytidine, and acycloguanosine. BVDU and IVDU were virtually inactive against a thymidine kinase-deficient VZV mutant, suggesting that phosphorylation by the viral enzyme is responsible, at least in part, for the selective anti-VZV activity of the compounds.
The comparative analysis of the pathogenicity of a parental herpes simplex virus type 1 strain and its phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant and acyclovir (ACV)-resistant mutants showed marked differences among them. After orofacial skin inoculation of hairless mice the parental and PAA-resistant viruses were detected during the first 4 days after infection at high and increasing titers in the trigeminal ganglia; the ACV-resistant mutant was present at low and decreasing titers in the ganglia. Severe and slow-healing skin lesions were produced by the parental and PAA-resistant viruses; mild and rapidly healing lesions were produced by the ACV-resistant mutant. Virus titers in ganglia and the intensity of skin lesions were related to the virus dose used in the primary infection. Latent infections became established in trigeminal ganglia of mice inoculated with 106.0 plaque-forming units of the parental or PAA-resistant virus; no latent infections were detected in ganglia of mice inoculated with 107.0 plaque-forming units of the ACV-resistant mutant. Serum antibody titers attained similar values 4 weeks after primary infection with both mutants and the parental virus. Mice infected with the ACV-resistant mutant were reinfected with the parental and PAA-resistant viruses; the degree of protection against development of skin lesions, mortality, and latency was related to the dose of ACV-resistant virus used in the primary infection. Mortality was prevented by a dose of 106.0 plaque-forming units, skin lesions were prevented by a dose of 106.5 plaque-forming units, and latency was prevented by a dose of 107.0 plaque-forming units of the ACV-resistant mutant. Protection against reinfection with the PAA-resistant mutant was achieved with lower doses than protection against the parental virus. Serum antibody titers showed a 4- to 15-fold increase after reinfection. The results suggest that the ACV-resistant, latency-negative mutant has many attributes of a live attenuated herpes simplex virus vaccine.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV)-infected cells produce not only infectious nucleocapsid-containing virions but also virion-related noninfectious light particles (L-particles) composed of the envelope and tegument components of the virus particle (J. F. Szilágyi and C. Cunningham, J. Gen. Virol. 62:661-668, 1991). We show that BHK and MeWO cells infected either with wild-type (WT) HSV type 1 (HSV-1) in the presence of viral DNA replication inhibitors (cytosine-beta-D-arabinofuranoside, phosphonoacetic acid, and acycloguanosine) or with a viral DNA replication-defective mutant of HSV-1 (ambUL8) synthesize a new type of virus-related particle that is morphologically similar to an L-particle but differs in its relative protein composition. These novel particles we term pre-viral DNA replication enveloped particles (PREPs). The numbers of PREPs released into the culture medium were of the same order as those of L-particles from control cultures. The particle/PFU ratios of different PREP stocks ranged from 6 x 10(5) to 3.8 x 10(8), compared with ratios of 3 x 10(3) to 1 x 10(4) for WT L-particle stocks. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western immunoblot analyses revealed that true late proteins, such as 273K (VP1-2), 82/81K (VP13/14), and gC (VP8), were greatly reduced or absent in PREPs and that gD (VP17) and 40K proteins were also underrepresented. In contrast, the amounts of proteins 175K (VP4; IE3), 92/91K (VP11/12), 38K (VP22), and gE (with BHK cells) were increased. The actual protein composition of PREPs showed some cell line-dependent differences, particularly in the amount of gE. PREPs were biologically competent and delivered functional Vmw65 (VP16; alpha TIF) to target cells, but the efficiency of complementation of the HSV-1 (strain 17) mutant in1814 was 10 to 30% of that of WT L-particles.
Abstract ::: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated membrane antigens have been purified from the plasma membranes of the producer cell line P3HR-1 NONO. The antigens were assayed with a specific rabbit anti-ebv antiserum using an 125I-labeled staphylococcal protein A binding assay. The antigens have been shown to be present on purified plasma membranes. Treatment of the plasma membranes with Triton X-100 allows the separation of two antigenically distinct classes of antigens, one soluble and one insoluble in the detergent. Immunoprecipitates of [125I5- and [35S]methionine-labeled, detergent-soluble antigens contained three major polypeptides of molecular weights of 350,000, 140,000, and 75,003 (on 7.5% sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) and several minor components. These polypeptides were all specifically precipitated from four EBV-producer cell lines, P3HR-1, P3HR-1 NONO, B95-8, and 7744. They could not be precipitated from producer cell lines treated with phosphonoacetic acid, which inhibits late viral functions, nor could they be precipitated from nonproducer cell lines. The 350,000 and 75,000 molecular weight polypeptides bound to Ricin and lentil lectin columns; however, most of the 140,000 molecular weight material did not. A component of molecular weight 220,000 (prominent only in P3HR-1 NONO) was probably a degradation product of the 350,000 molecular weight polypeptide.
Microsomal membrane fraction proteins with enhanced synthesis after P3HR-1 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) superinfection of Raji cells were identified with [35S]-methionine labeling and SDS-PAGE. One 53,000-dalton protein, which was found in both the microsomal membrane and cytosol fractions, was purified by ion-exchange chromatography, and specific rabbit antisera were prepared to it. This protein was found to be present in Raji cells, but its expression was enhanced after P3HR-1 EBV superinfection. It was more abundant in the cytosol than in the microsomal membrane fraction of the cell, and its synthesis was not affected by treatment of the cells with phosphonoacetic acid. It was present in several EBV-genome-negative cell lines and in activated B lymphocytes and consequently represents a host-cell-coded protein which is enhanced by EBV superinfection or by lymphocyte activation.
The antiviral activity of 5-methoxymethyl-29-deoxyuridine (MMUdR) was compared with that of 5-iodo-29-deoxyuridine (IUdR), 5-ethyl-29-deoxyuridine (EtUdR), adenine arabinoside (Ara-A), and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) against herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2). MMUdR was more potent than Ara-A and PAA but less active than EtUdR and IUdR against HSV-1 in rabbit kidney (RK-13) cells. In Vero cells, the antiviral activities of MMUdR, Ara-A, and PAA against HSV-1 were of the same order of magnitude. The antiviral potency against HSV-2 varied with the strain of virus used. All strains of HSV-2 were markedly inhibited by EtUdR and IUdR and to a lesser degree by PAA. However, considerable variation was noticed in the susceptibility of HSV-2 strains to Ara-A and MMUdR. Interaction of MMUdR with Ara-A, EtUdR, IUdR, and PAA was investigated by the method of response isobolograms. MMUdR showed synergistic activity in combination with Ara-A and PAA but antagonistic activity in combination with EtUdR and IUdR against herpesviruses. Minimum toxic dose (concentration required to produce definite evidence of microscopic cytotoxicity in rapidly growing RK-13 cells) was determined for each compound and was found to be 512, 172, 64, 8, and less than 0.5 microgram/ml for MMUdR, PAA, Ara-A, EtUdR, and IUdR, respectively. MMUdR was found to have the maximum antiviral index against HSV-1 (512) and HSV-2 strains X-265 (102) and ATCC (85). Antiviral index was defined as the minimum toxic dose divided by the dose that reduced plaque numbers by 50%.
The in vitro susceptibility of eight strains of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) to E-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (BVDU) was examined in human embryonic fibroblasts by the following techniques: inhibition of focus formation by either cell-free VZV (4-day assay) or cell-associated VZV (2-day assay), inhibition of viral antigen formation (2-day assay), and inhibition of viral cytopathogenicity (15-day assay). The 50% inhibitory dose (ID50) of BVDU ranged from 0.001 ,ug/ml (2-day assay) to 0.01 ,ug/ml (15-day assay). BVDU appeared highly selective in its anti-VZV activity since even at concentrations as high as 100 ,ug/ml, BVDU did not markedly affect the viability of the host cells. The ID50 of BVDU for VZV was comparable to that of IVDU (E-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine). Both drugs inhibited the replication of VZV at a much lower concentration than did other antiviral compounds such as iododeoxyuridine, ethyldeoxyuridine, arabinosylcytosine, arabinosyladenine, phosphonoacetic acid, iododeoxycytidine, and acycloguanosine. BVDU and IVDU were virtually inactive against a thymidine kinasedeficient VZV mutant, suggesting that phosphorylation by the viral enzyme is responsible, at least in part, for the selective anti-VZV activity of the compounds.
The comparative analysis of the pathogenicity of a parental herpes simplex virus type 1 strain and its phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant and acyclovir (ACV)-resistant mutants showed marked differences among them. After orofacial skin inoculation of hairless mice the parental and PAA-resistant viruses were detected during the first 4 days after infection at high and increasing titers in the trigeminal ganglia; the ACV-resistant mutant was present at low and decreasing titers in the ganglia. Severe and slow-healing skin lesions were produced by the parental and PAA-resistant viruses; mild and rapidly healing lesions were produced by the ACV-resistant mutant. Virus titers in ganglia and the intensity of skin lesions were related to the virus dose used in the primary infection. Latent infections became established in trigeminal ganglia of mice inoculated with 1060 plaque-forming units of the parental or PAA-resistant virus; no latent infections were detected in ganglia of mice inoculated with 107.0 plaque-forming units of the ACV-resistant mutant. Serum antibody titers attained similar values 4 weeks after primary infection with both mutants and the parental virus. Mice infected with the ACV-resistant mutant were reinfected with the parental and PAAresistant viruses; the degree of protection against development of skin lesions, mortality, and latency was related to the dose of ACV-resistant virus used in the primary infection. Mortality was prevented by a dose of 1060 plaque-forming units, skin lesions were prevented by a dose of 1065 plaque-forming units, and latency was prevented by a dose of 107.0 plaque-forming units of the ACV-resistant mutant. Protection against reinfection with the PAA-resistant mutant was achieved with lower doses than protection against the parental virus. Serum antibody titers showed a 4-to 15-fold increase after reinfection. The results suggest that the ACV-resistant, latency-negative mutant has many attributes of a live attenuated herpes simplex virus vaccine.
Diethyl(N-arylaminocarbonyl)methyl phosphonates have been obtained by the reaction of diethylphosphonoacetic acid imidazolides with methyl-4-aminobenzoate or 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenylamine. Their treatment with Me3SiBr in DMF led to a mixture of the corresponding (N-arylaminocarbonylmethyl)phosphonic acids and their monoethyl esters. After separation, they were condensed with 3′-O-acetyl-α-thymidine, which, after the removal of the acetyl protecting group, gave (α-D-thymidine-5′-yl)-[4-aminocarbonyl-, methoxycarbonyl-, or carboxy)phenylaminocarbonyl]methyl phosphonates and (α-D-thymidine-5′-yl)-[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenylaminocarbonyl]methyl phosphonate and their ethyl esters. It was shown that the compounds are stable under different conditions, low toxic (in Vero and K-562 cell cultures), and capable of penetrating into K-562 cells. Only ethyl (α-D-thymidine-5′-yl)-[4-(methoxycarbonyl)phenylaminocarbonyl]methyl phosphonate at a high concentration (200 μg/mL) inhibited in vitro the growth of the laboratory strain M. tuberculosis H37Rv.
Thirty-two human lymphoid cell lines of various origins were treated with hydrocortisone (HC) 20 μg/ml for 3 days and examined for cell viability, increase in the percentage of EBV antigen-positive cells, and interferon synthesis. Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cell lines (69) under the effect of HC were characterized by a decrease in cell viability, increase in the percentage of EA antigen-positive cells, and poor interferon response in contrast to lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from the peripheral blood of normal individuals (014) or patients with infectious mononucleosis (04). The enhancement in the expression of EBV-EA as shown by the increase in the percentage of EA antigen-positive cells following HC was exclusively seen in BL cell lines (69). This effect could be blocked by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). In contrast the effect on cell viability could not be inhibited by PAA but was abolished by pretreatment of the cells with interferon.
Abstract A novel 1-dimensional U(VI) phosphonoacetate, UO 2 (O 3 PCH 2 CO 2 H)(H 2 O)·2H 2 O ( 1 ), has been synthesized from the room temperature reaction of uranium nitrate and phosphonoacetic acid (H 3 PPA) in water. The compound crystallizes in a monoclinic space group ( P 2 1 , a = 8.3517(5) A, b = 7.0013(4) A, c = 8.3728(5) A, β = 107.310(1)°, Z = 2) and exhibits bonding to the UO 2 2+ through both phosphonate and carboxylate oxygen atoms of the acid unit. The crystal structure, thermal and fluorescent behaviors, and role of UO 2 2+ hydrolysis in the context of ambient versus hydrothermal syntheses are discussed.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits the replication of herpes simplex virus in BSC-1 cells and the in vitro synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in isolated nuclei. Phosphonopropionic acid at a concentration of 100 mug/ml had no effect on herpes simplex virus replication. PAA-resistant mutants were obtained at a rate of 1 in 10(4) plaque-forming units after 5-bromodeoxyuridine mutagenization of the virus. These mutants replicate in BSC-1 cells in the presence of 100 mug of PAA per ml and induce a PAA-resistant DNA polymerase that synthesizes DNA in vitro in the presence of PAA.
Virus-encoded modulation of apoptosis may serve as a mechanism to enhance cell survival and virus persistence. The impact of productive varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection on apoptosis appears to be cell type specific, as infected human sensory neurons are resistant to apoptosis, yet human fibroblasts readily become apoptotic. We sought to identify the viral gene product(s) responsible for this antiapoptotic phenotype in primary human sensory neurons. Treatment with phosphonoacetic acid to inhibit viral DNA replication and late-phase gene expression did not alter the antiapoptotic phenotype, implicating immediate-early (IE) or early genes or a virion component. Compared to the parental VZV strain (rOKA), a recombinant virus unable to express one copy of the diploid IE gene ORF63 (rOkaΔORF63) demonstrated a significant induction of apoptosis in infected neurons, as determined by three methods: annexin V staining, deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end label staining, and transmission electron microscopy. Furthermore, neurons transfected with a plasmid expressing ORF63 resisted apoptosis induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal. These results show that ORF63 can suppress apoptosis of neurons and provide the first identification of a VZV gene encoding an antiapoptotic function. As ORF63 is expressed in neurons during both productive and latent infection, it may play a significant role in viral pathogenesis by promoting neuron survival during primary and reactivated infections.
The study of plant DNA polymerases lags far behind that concerning their animal or yeast counterpart. In this work we describe the first extensive purification to apparent homogeneity, as well as a detailed biochemical and immunological characterization, of a low molecular weight DNA polymerase (DNA polymerase CI) purified from wheat embryos. The monomeric enzyme is a basic protein having a molecular weight of 52 kDa. Polyclonal antibodies raised in rabbits against DNA polymerase CI did not inhibit animal DNA polymerases α and β or wheat DNA polymerase A, whereas wheat DNA polymerases CII and B were much less affected than the CI enzyme. Several properties of enzyme CI were studied. Some known inhibitors of DNA polymerase activity including aphidicolin, phosphonoacetic acid and heparin, did not affect DNA polymerase CI while the activity of this enzyme was strongly inhibited by ddTTP and N-ethylmaleimide. The polyamine spermine decreased markedly the enzyme activity, while spermidine produced a strong stimulation at the same concentrations that spermine inhibited the enzyme. The best template for this enzyme is poly dA-oligo dT, although polymerase CI can recognize significantly some synthetic polyribonucleotide templates (poly rC-oligo dG, poly rA-oligo dT) but only at a given protein/template primer ratio. The enzyme is blocked at the amino terminus, thus preventing the automatic sequencing of the protein. The amino acid analysis showed a striking similarity with the animal low molecular weight DNA polymerase β. The latter observation, as well as the effect of inhibitors (except N-ethylmaleimide which does not inhibit the animal polymerase) indicate that the DNA polymerase described in this work is a plant DNA polymerase very similar to the low molecular weight animal DNA polymerase β, an enzyme believed to be involved in nuclear DNA repair.
Bacteriophage ( protein phosphatase ((PP) with Mn 2 + as the activating metal cofactor was studied using phosphatase inhibition kinetics and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy. Orthophosphate and the oxoanion analogues orthovanadate, tungstate, molybdate, arsenate, and sulfate were shown to inhibit the phosphomonoesterase activity of (PP, albeit with inhibition constants (K i ) that range over 5 orders of magnitude. In addition, small organic anions were tested as inhibitors. Phosphonoacetohydroxamic acid (PhAH) was found to be a strong competitive inhibitor (K i =5.1′1.6 μM) whereas phosphonoacetic acid (K i = 380′45 μM) and acetohydroxamic acid (K i > 75 mM) modestly inhibited γPP. Low-temperature EPR spectra of Mn 2 + -reconstituted APP in the presence of oxoanions and PhAH demonstrate that inhibitor binding decreases the spin-coupling constant, J, compared to the native enzyme. This suggests a change in the bridging interaction between Mn 2 + ions of the dimer due to protonation or replacement of a bridging ligand. Inhibitor binding also induces several spectral shifts. Hyperfine splitting characteristic of a spin-coupled (Mn 2 + ) 2 dimer is most prominent upon the addition of orthovanadate (K i = 0.70′0.20μM) and PhAH, indicating that these inhibitors tightly interact with the (Mn 2 + ) 2 form of (PP. These EPR and inhibition kinetic results are discussed in the context of establishing a common mechanism for the hydrolysis of phosphate esters by (PP and other serine/threonine protein phosphatases.
Herpes simplex virus type1(HSV-1)-infected humanfibroblast (HSV-FS) targets aresusceptible tolysis by natural killer (NK)cells, whereas uninfected FSareresistant tolysis. Studies were undertaken todetermine the mechanism ofthis preferential susceptibility. HSV-FSwere notintrinsically less stable thanFS,asdetermined bya 5"Cr release assayunderhypotonic shockinthepresenceofratgranule cytolysin andbysensitivity to anti-human leukocyte antigen class Iantibody pluscomplement. Single-cell assaysinagarosedemonstrated thatalthough similar numbersoflarge granular lymphocytes boundtotheHSV-FSandFStargets, the conjugates withHSV-FSwere lysed ata muchhigher frequency thanthose withFS.Theseresults suggested thatbothtargets areboundbytheNK cellsbutonlytheHSV-FSwere abletotrigger lysis. Therequirement foractive virus expression was demonstrated byfailure ofemetine-treated HSV-FStargets or targets infected withUV-inactivated HSVtobelysed byNK effectors. Toevaluate therole ofviral glycoproteins inconferring susceptibility tolysis, Fabwere prepared fromHSV-l-seropositive sera;these Fabwere unable toblock lysis oftheHSV-FS. Furthermore, incubation inphosphonoacetic acid failed toreduce NK(HSV-FS) activity despite sharpreductions inviral glycoprotein synthesis. Finally, targets infected withtsLB2atthenonpermissive temperature were lysed aswell asor better thantargets infected withwild-type virus, indicating thatHSV immediate-early geneproduct expression issufficient forconferring susceptibility tolysis. We conclude that expressionofnonstructural viral proteins or virally induced cellular gene products early inthecourseof infection rather thanstructural glycoproteins isrequired forNK lysis ofHSV-FStargets. Natural killer (NK)cells arecapable oflysing avariety of virus-infected targetcells as wellas certain tumortargets andnormalcells. Becausetheyarerelatively nonspecific, NK cells are available immediately as a first-line defense against an invading viral pathogen andare postulated to servetolimit theextentofvirus dissemination prior tothe more specific immuneresponses.Invitro studies withhuman effector cells haveindicated thatNK cells can efficiently reduce theextentofreplication ofcertain cytopathic viruses, including herpes simplex virus type1(HSV-1), and adoptive transfer studies witha murinesystemhaveindicateda roleforNK cells against a numberofcytopathic viruses (10). Thenatureofthetarget antigens recognized byNK cells on virus-infected targets hasremained controversial. Roles forboththemajorstructural glycoprotein G andnonstructural matrix protein M havebeenimplicated inthelysis of targets infected withvesicular stomatitis virus(VSV)(32, 37). Bishop etal.(3,5,6)reported thatHSV glycoproteins aretherelevant structures recognized on infected fibroblast orWISH epithelial cell targets. However, Borysiewicz etal. (7)andLopez-Guerrero etal.(31) havefailed todemonstrate aroleforviral glycoproteins inthelysis ofcytomegalovirus (CMV)-or HSV-infected targets, respectively, andhave instead implicated a roleforearly viral genes or a cellular gene product. Similarly, ina bovineherpesvirus (BHV) system,CookandSplitter (11)havesuggested thatviral
Many microorganisms produce phosphonates, molecules characterized by stable carbon-phosphorus bonds that store phosphorus or act as antimicrobials. The role of phosphonates in the marine biosphere is well characterized but the role of these molecules in the intestine is poorly understood. Salmonella enterica uses its virulence factors to influence the host immune response to compete with the host and normal microflora for nutrients. Salmonella cannot produce phosphonates but encodes the enzymes to use them suggesting that it is exposed to phosphonates during its life cycle. The role of phosphonates during enteric salmonellosis is unexplored. We have previously shown that STM3602, encoding a putative regulator of phosphonate metabolism, is needed for colonization in calves. Here, we report that the necessity of STM3602 in colonization of the murine intestine results from multiple factors. STM3602 is needed for full activation of the type-3 secretion system-1 and for optimal invasion of epithelial cells. The ∆STM3602 mutant grows poorly in phosphonoacetic acid (PA) as the sole phosphorus source, but can use 2-aminoethylphosphonate. PhnA, an enzyme required for PA breakdown, is not controlled by STM3602 suggesting an additional mechanism for utilization of PA in S. Typhimurium. Finally, the requirement of STM3602 for intestinal colonization differs depending on the composition of the microflora. Our data suggest that STM3602 has multiple regulatory targets that are necessary for survival within the microbial community in the intestine. Determination of the members of the STM3602 regulon may illuminate new pathways needed for colonization of the host.required for PA breakdown, is not controlled by STM3602 suggesting an additional mechanism for utilization of PA in S. Typhimurium. Finally, the requirement of STM3602 for intestinal colonization differs depending on the composition of the microflora. Our data suggest that STM3602 has multiple regulatory targets that necessary for survival within the microbial community in the intestine. Determination of the members of the STM3602 regulon may illuminate new pathways needed for colonization of the host.
Virus-encoded modulation of apoptosis may serve as a mechanism to enhance cell survival and virus persistence. The impact of productive varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection on apoptosis appears to be cell type specific, as infected human sensory neurons are resistant to apoptosis, yet human fibroblasts readily become apoptotic. We sought to identify the viral gene product(s) responsible for this antiapoptotic phenotype in primary human sensory neurons. Treatment with phosphonoacetic acid to inhibit viral DNA replication and late-phase gene expression did not alter the antiapoptotic phenotype, implicating immediate-early (IE) or early genes or a virion component. Compared to the parental VZV strain (rOKA), a recombinant virus unable to express one copy of the diploid IE gene ORF63 (rOka⌬ORF63) demonstrated a significant induction of apoptosis in infected neurons, as determined by three methods: annexin V staining, deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end label staining, and transmission electron microscopy. Furthermore, neurons transfected with a plasmid expressing ORF63 resisted apoptosis induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal. These results show that ORF63 can suppress apoptosis of neurons and provide the first identification of a VZV gene encoding an antiapoptotic function. As ORF63 is expressed in neurons during both productive and latent infection, it may play a significant role in viral pathogenesis by promoting neuron survival during primary and reactivated infections.
In our previous work we described the synthesis and characterization of materials of phosphonates metal organic frameworks [19] [20] [21] [22] . Starting from various ligands with one phosphonate moiety -vinyl phosphonic acid, a carboxy-diphosphonate ligand -N,N-bis(phosphonomethyl) glycine and a carboxy-phosphonate ligand -phosphonoacetic acid with Ni(CH 3 COO) 2 · 4H 2 O, three phosphonate metal organic frameworks were synthesized [23] [24] [25] . The structure, morphology and properties of materials were investigated by FTIR, XRD, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA).
Many microorganisms produce phosphonates, molecules characterized by stable carbon-phosphorus bonds that store phosphorus or act as antimicrobials. The role of phosphonates in the marine biosphere is well characterized but the role of these molecules in the intestine is poorly understood. Salmonella enterica uses its virulence factors to influence the host immune response to compete with the host and normal microflora for nutrients. Salmonella cannot produce phosphonates but encodes the enzymes to use them suggesting that it is exposed to phosphonates during its life cycle. The role of phosphonates during enteric salmonellosis is unexplored. We have previously shown that STM3602, encoding a putative regulator of phosphonate metabolism, is needed for colonization in calves. Here, we report that the necessity of STM3602 in colonization of the murine intestine results from multiple factors. STM3602 is needed for full activation of the type-3 secretion system-1 and for optimal invasion of epithelial cells. The ∆STM3602 mutant grows poorly in phosphonoacetic acid (PA) as the sole phosphorus source, but can use 2-aminoethylphosphonate. PhnA, an enzyme required for PA breakdown, is not controlled by STM3602 suggesting an additional mechanism for utilization of PA in S. Typhimurium. Finally, the requirement of STM3602 for intestinal colonization differs depending on the composition of the microflora. Our data suggest that STM3602 has multiple regulatory targets that are necessary for survival within the microbial community in the intestine. Determination of the members of the STM3602 regulon may illuminate new pathways needed for colonization of the host.
The timing of some of the molecular events that are required for cell fusion was investigated. Cell fusion was produced by a mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1 that causes extensive cell fusion during infection. The timing of molecular events required for fusion was established by the use of blocking agents. Phosphonoacetic acid blocks viral DNA synthesis; actinomycin D blocks RNA synthesis; cycloheximide blocks protein synthesis; 2-deoxyglucose blocks glycosylation of glycoproteins; high temperature, NH 4 Cl, and adamantanone block unknown steps required for cell fusion. For cells infected at a low multiplicity of infection, phosphonoacetic acid decreased the rate but not the final amount of fusion, but at a multiplicity of infection of 10 it had no effect on the rate of cell fusion. RNA synthesis was required for fusion until 4 h after infection, protein synthesis until 5.5 h after infection, and glycosylation until 7 h after infection. The temperature-dependent step occurred before 6 h after infection, whereas NH 4 Cl and adamantanone acted at steps that occurred until 8 h after infection. Cycloheximide, temperature, NH 4 Cl, and adamantanone acted reversibly; actinomycin D and 2-deoxyglucose acted irreversibly. The same order of action of the inhibitors was also determined by using pairs of inhibitors sequentially. These experiments also indicated that the fusion factor was not an α-polypeptide. Virus growth and cell fusion were both found to be highly dependent on temperature in the range of 30 to 40°C. Wild-type infections are apparently characterized by the presence of a fusion factor and a fusion inhibitor. The fusion-blocking agents were added to wild-type-infected cells under a variety of conditions in an attempt to selectively block the production of the fusion inhibitor molecule and thereby cause extensive cell fusion. However, fusion was not observed in any of these experiments.
Abstract ::: We report on the properties of a temperature-sensitive mutant produced by transfection of cells with intact DNA and a specific DNA fragment mutagenized with low levels of hydroxylamine. The plating efficiency of the mutant at 39 degrees C relative to that at 33.5 degrees C was 5 X 10(-6). The pattern of polypeptides produced at the nonpermissive temperature was similar to that seen with wild-type virus in infected cells treated with inhibitory concentrations of phosphonoacetic acid in that alpha and beta polypeptides were produced, whereas most gamma polypeptides were either reduced or absent. Consistently, the mutant did not make viral DNA, although temperature sensitivity of the viral DNA polymerase could not be demonstrated. Marker rescue studies with herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) DNA mapped the mutant in the L component within map positions 0.385 and 0.402 in the prototype (P) arrangement of the HSV-1 genome. Analysis of the recombinants permitted the mapping of the genes specifying infected cell polypeptides 36, 35, 37, 19.5, 11, 8, 2, 43, and 44, but only the infected cell polypeptide 8 of HSV-2 was consistently made by all recombinants containing demonstrable HSV-2 sequences. Marker rescue studies with cloned HSV-1 DNA fragments mapped the temperature-sensitive lesion within less than 10(3) base pairs between 0.383 and 0.388 map units. Translation of the RNA hybridizing to cloned HSV-1 DNA, encompassing the smallest region containing the mutation, revealed polypeptide 8 (128,000 molecular weight), which was previously identified as a beta polypeptide with high affinity for viral DNA, and a polypeptide (25,000 molecular weight) not previously identified in lysates of labeled cells.
Abstract Sparfosic acid can easily be prepared in two steps and in excellent yield from condensation of the commercially available starting materials L-aspartic acid di-tert-butyl ester hydrochloride and diethylphosphonoacetic acid, followed by a quadruple deprotection of acidic functions under mild conditions using bromotrimethylsilane.
Abstract Five independently derived variants of a herpes simplex virus type I (HSV-1) strain were plaque purified from a virus population passaged in 1 mM phosphonoformic acid (PFA). The DNA polymerase induced by the parent and PFA-resistant viruses were purified and characterized. No differences were observed among the enzymes with respect to their chromatographic properties, specific activities, or polypeptides resolved by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The variant enzymes exhibited levels of PFA resistance which ranged from 15- to 25-fold. Resistance to PFA was always associated with a similar degree of resistance to its congener phosphonoacetic acid, but cross-resistance to beta-phenylphosphonoacetic acid was only seen with two of the five variant enzymes. PFA and pyrophosphate were mutually competitive in PPi exchange reactions, but in DNA synthetic reactions the levels of resistance to PFA and PPi were not equal. The apparent affinities of the enzymes for Mg2+ did parallel their affinities for PFA. Km values of dNTPs were about 2-fold higher than the parent virus enzyme for all of the variant enzymes except one which was 4-fold higher. The processivity of polymerization was apparently unaffected by the enzyme changes related to PFA resistance although one variant enzyme had a lower value. Resistance among the variant enzymes to the triphosphates of 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine and 2',3'-dideoxyguanosine was directly related to the level of resistance to PFA. The data presented here indicated that (i) PFA resistance may result from several types of active site alterations, since the PFA-resistant enzymes were of three kinetically distinct types. Also, additional enzyme alterations, probably unrelated to PFA resistance, were detected in one enzyme. (ii) PFA and PPi possess some different binding determinants within the active center of herpes simplex virus type I DNA polymerase. (iii) PFA and the triphosphates of 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine and 2',3'-dideoxyguanosine may have a common ultimate inhibitory mechanism.
Infection of WI-38 human fibroblasts with varicella-zoster virus led to the stimulation of host cell DNA polymerase synthesis and induction of a new virus-specific DNA polymerase. This virus-induced DNA polymerase was partially purified and separated from host cell enzymes by DEAE-cellulose and phosphocellulose column chromatographies. This virus-induced enzyme could be distinguished from host cell enzyme by its chromatographic behavior, template specificity, and its requirement of salt for maximal activity. The enzyme could efficiently use poly(dC).oligo(dG)12-18 as well as poly(dA).oligo(dT)12-18 as template-primers. It required Mg2+ for maximal polymerization activity and was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, to which host alpha- and beta-DNA polymerase were relatively resistant. In addition, this induced DNA polymerase activity was enhanced by adding 60 mM (NH4)2SO4 to the reaction mixture.
Intraligand cooperation between carbonyl and phosphoryl moieties in ion bonding was studied by the synthesis of β-ketophosphonic acid (βkPh), phosphonoacetic acid (PhAc), and phosphonic acid (Ph) resins. A subsequent reaction gave bifunctional analogues with sulfonic acid as an additional ligand (βkPhs, PhAcs, and Phs resins). Ionic affinities were quantified with dilute solutions of Cu(II), Cd(II), and Pb(II) in 0.10M HNO3. The effect of an increased solution ionic strength was studied with a second set of 0.10M HNO3/0.04M NaNO3 solutions. The results from the monofunctional resins and nitric acid alone showed that βkPh had the highest metal-ion affinities, whereas PhAc had affinities similar to those of Ph. Comparing βkPh to Ph led to the conclusion that the carbonyl group was a strong contributor to binding through intraligand cooperation with the phosphoryl group, whereas comparing PhAc to Ph led to the conclusion that the carbonyl group played no role in the ion binding. These opposing conclusions were reconciled as follows: (1) the extent of complexation from the 0.10M HNO3 solutions increased significantly when the monofunctional resins were sulfonated and (2) a comparison of the results for the monofunctional resins when contacting Cu(II), Cd(II), and Pb(II) in the absence of NaNO3 with those for the bifunctional resins when contacting those ions in the presence of NaNO3 showed that the ionic affinities were comparable for Ph and Phs, greater for PhAcs than for PhAc, and comparable for βkPhs and βkPh. The resins PhAcs and βkPh displayed comparable ionic affinities that were higher than that of Ph. The results were consistent with the conclusion that, in the monofunctional resin, the affinity of the phosphonoacetate ligand for the metal ions was reduced because of intraligand hydrogen bonding. Intraligand cooperation was, therefore, an important variable in enhancing the metal-ion affinities, but its effect could be attenuated by intraligand hydrogen bonding. This attenuation could be eliminated by the introduction of a highly hydrophilic group into the matrix. © 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Appl Polym Sci 91: 463–468, 2004
Abstract The antiviral effect of acyclovir (ACV; 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine) on the replication of channel catfish virus (CCV), a poikilothermic herpesvirus, in brown bullhead cells (BB) was studied in vitro. Acyclovir at concentrations of 2 μM and 10 μM produced a 95 to 99% reduction in plaque numbers, respectively. At 10 μM ACV did not affect the growth of uninfected BB cells which could even be subcultured for four passages in the presence of the inhibitor. To be effective ACV had to be added early in the infectious cycle and was progressively less effective when added at later times after infection. Similar to homeothermic herpesviruses, the inhibition could be reversed with the addition of excess thymidine. The effects of three other antiviral agents, adenine-β- d -arabinofuranoside (ara-A), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and phosphonoformic acid (PFA) on CCV replication were evaluated either individually or in combination with ACV. Although the other agents were found to be less effective in inhibiting CCV replication than ACV, none of the agents interacted synergistically with ACV. The results indicated that interactions with ACV with ara-A, PFA and PAA were primarily additive. Mutants of CCV resistant to ACV were obtained and were found to be somewhat more resistant to PFA than was the stock CCV.
Abstract The stereoselective Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons reaction of aryl alkyl ketones with bis(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetic acid utilizing lithium hexamethyldisilazide in DMF afforded ( E )-α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acids as the major products.
We report on the properties of a temperature-sensitive mutant produced by transfection of cells with intact DNA and a specific DNA fragment mutagenized with low levels of hydroxylamine. The plating efficiency of the mutant at 390C relative to that at 33.50C was 5 x 10'. The pattern of polypeptides produced at the nonpermissive temperature was similar to that seen with wild-type virus in infected cells treated with inhibitory concentrations of phosphonoacetic acid in that a and ,B polypeptides were produced, whereas most y polypeptides were either reduced or absent. Consistently, the mutant did not make viral DNA, although temperature sensitivity of the viral DNA polymerase could not be demonstrated. Marker rescue studies with herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) DNA mapped the mutant in the L component within map positions 0.385 and 0.402 in the prototype (P) arrangement of the HSV-1 genome. Analysis of the recombinants permitted the mapping of the genes specifying infected cell polypeptides 36, 35, 37, 19.5, 11, 8, 2, 43, and 44, but only the infected cell polypeptide 8 of HSV-2 was consistently made by all recombinants containing demonstrable HSV-2 sequences. Marker rescue studies with cloned HSV-1 DNA fragments mapped the temperature-sensitive lesion within less than 103 base pairs between 0.383 and 0.388 map units. Translation of the RNA hybridizing to cloned HSV-1 DNA, encompassing the smallest region containing the mutation, revealed polypeptide 8 (128,000 molecular weight), which was previously identified as a /8 polypeptide with high affinity for viral DNA, and a polypeptide (25,000 molecular weight) not previously identified in lysates of labeled cells.
The ability of a wide variety of soil-borne fungal strains to degrade four structurally different compounds containing P-C bonds, namely the naturally occurring amino acid ciliatine, the popular herbicide glyphosate, phosphonoacetic acid and 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid, was studied in order to show that soil fungi may play an important role in the biodegradation of organophosphonates. Most of the strains appeared to utilize ciliatine as the sole source of phosphorus for growth. Only a limited number of strains were able to grow on the other phosphonates used in this work. The strains of Trichoderma harzianum, Scopulariopsis sp. and Aspergillus niger chosen for more detailed study show the ability to degrade ciliatine, glyphosate and also amino(3-methoxyphenyl)methylphosphonic acid effectively.
Rare earth elements (REE) are essential components of equipment used for renewable energy, green technologies, and more traditional sectors such as chemical catalysis and metallurgy. Interest has been growing in alternative REE sources to supplement current ore sources and related refining, which have historically supplied the bulk of REE oxides. This study investigated the capability of adsorbent silica particles functionalized with three different ligands – phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), N,N-bisphosphono(methyl)glycine (BPG), and diethylenetriaminepentaacetic dianhydride (DTPADA) – to selectively extract REE from acidic to circumneutral aqueous brine solutions in equilibrium conditions. Maximum REE removal from 0.5 M NaCl solutions was displayed at pH 7 for PAA, pH 2 for DTPADA, and in both acidic and basic conditions for BPG functionalized materials. The REE adsorption performance for functionalized materials was largely unimpeded by the presence of competing ions (Ca, Mg, Zn, Fe, Al). Tests with real brines (I ∼ 3 M) showed >90% efficiency in REE recovery, which improved at higher temperatures (up to 100 °C). Effective elution of REE was accomplished with 0.7 N HNO3, and performance of the adsorbents improved with additional usage cycles.
The DNA polymerase gene of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was cloned into baculovirus transfer vector (pBlueBac). The recombinant baculovirus (AcEBP-15) was obtained by cotransfection of Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells with infectious DNA from Autographa californica multiple nuclear polyhedrin virus (AcMNPV) and pBlueBac plasmid carrying EBV polymerase gene. Infection of Sf9 cells with the recombinant virus produced substantial quantities of the EBV DNA polymerase protein of the expected size (110 kD). The identity of the EBV polymerase 110-kD polypeptide was determined by (a) immunoprecipitation and Western blot analyses with rabbit polyclonal antiserum specific for a synthetic peptide derived from the coding sequence of the polymerase gene; (b) identification of a polypeptide of identical size (110 kD) from EBV-infected cells; (c) measurement of DNA polymerase activity similar to that of the enzyme induced in EBV-infected cells; and (d) neutralization of the enzymatic activity by the rabbit antiserum and inhibition by phosphonoacetic acid. Our results indicate that the baculovirus expression system provides large quantities of functional polymerase suitable for biochemical and structural analyses, thereby furthering our understanding of the mechanism of viral DNA replication and its inhibition by antiviral drugs.
The invention relates to a range hood washing method, which comprises the following steps: (1) adopting a detergent composed of the following compositions in percentage by weight: 2.6-5.4% of isopropyl alcohol, 1.3-3.7% of sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate, 2.9-4.2% of sodium benzoate, 3.1-5.9% of sodium molybdate, 0.7-2.3% of ethanol, 3.9-6.4% of ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid, 1.7-5.2% of benzotriazole, 2.2-4.9% of fatty alcohol-polyoxyethylene ether, 3.4-6.1% of 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid, 3.9-7.4% of oleic acid, 0.1-0.6% of triethanolamine oleate, and the balance of deionized water; (2) putting the detergent into a spray bottle, and placing a liquid waste container below a range hood; and (3) spraying the detergent to the range hood by using the spray bottle, so that the spray amount per square centimeter on the surface of the range hood is 5-35 ml; and then washing the range hood by using clean water and drying the range hood, thereby completing the washing. According to the invention, dirt on range hoods can be quickly removed, and parts are not corroded; and the surface of a range hood subjected to cleaning is clean as new, therefore, the cleaning effect is remarkable.
The transcription of Epstein-Barr virus genome in productively infected B95-8 cells in the presence or absence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was studied. Twenty-eight species of cytoplasmic poly(A)-containing virus mRNA were identified as PAA resistant. Some of these viral mRNAs were not detected in the absence of PAA. The most actively transcribed fragments of cloned EBV DNA in the presence of PAA were BamHI H (map unit 29.1-32.5) and M (47.3-50.3). The treatment of TPA-induced B95-8 cells with cycloheximide abolished most cytoplasmic viral poly(A) RNAs, and only three species of viral mRNA (0.7, 1.0, and 1.6 megadaltons) were detectable by hybridization with the BamHI M fragment.
The first NMR titration curves for phosphonoacetic acid HOOC-CH 2 -PO 3 H 2 using 13 C and 31 P NMR were reported as δ C vs. pH and δ P vs. pH functions. For the first time, a characteristic deprotonation sequence was established: HOOC-CH 2 -PO 3 H 2 → HOOC-CH 2 -PO 3 H − → − OOC-CH 2 -PO 3 H − → − OOC-CH 2 -PO 3 2− . In addition, 1 J PC was related to the s-electron density around the central C-atom [4] . Several decades of creative work followed those early observations. Induced by synthetic, analytical, biological, or technical aspects, interests were concentrated on several classes of organophosphorus compounds. Particular attention was drawn towards analogues of amino acids, e.g., aminophosphonic acids and strong complexing agents like NTMP (N(CH 2 PO 3 H 2 ) 3 ) and EDTMP ((H 2 O 3 PCH 2 ) 2 NCH 2 CH 2 N(CH 2 PO 3 H 2 ) 2 ), which are phospha analogues of the classical complexones NTA (N(CH 2 COOH) 3 ) and EDTA ((HOOCCH 2 ) 2 NCH 2 CH 2 N(CH 2 COOH) 2 ). Dissociation constants, stability constants for protonation and metal complex formation were studied as quoted with a few selected key papers [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] .
Immediate-early (IE) functions are encoded by α genes and do not require prior protein synthesis. They activate β genes (early) which switch on the production of late proteins encoded by γ genes. β genes can be further differentiated into two groups (β1 and β2), according to their temporal appearance. The γ genes also form two groups on the basis of their independence (γ1) or dependence (γ2) on viral DNA synthesis for their expression. The regulatory cascade has been extensively studied in cells infected with herpes simplex virus and human cytomegalovirus. Recently, we reported that HHV-6 transcription is also regulated by the typical herpesvirus cascade mechanism (Mirandola et al., 1998) . It is reasonable to assume that HHV-7 genes are coordinately transcribed in a cascade fashion, but experimental evidence is not available and specific studies have yet to be reported. The purpose of this study was to determine the kinetics of HHV-7 transcription in productively and abortively infected cells maintained in the presence of cycloheximide (CEX) or emetine (EME), inhibitors of protein synthesis, or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), an inhibitor of viral DNA replication.
Three biodegradable polyphosphate esters were synthesized by polycondensation of hexestrol with dichlorophosphoric acid ethyl ester,dichlorophosphonoformic acid ethyl ester or dichlorophosphonoacetic acid ethyl ester.The structures of these polymers were confirmed by IR,1H NMR and elementary analysis.The release testing was carried out in different pH media.The in vitro antitumor activity data showed that this kind of polyphosphate ester as polymeric prodrugs exhibits a good antitumor activity against EAC cells.
Nuclear extracts of varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-infected human embryo lung (HEL) cells were found to contain DNA polymerase activity not present in uninfected HEL cells. This enzyme was designated the VZV-induced DNA polymerase. The VZV-induced polymerase was partially separated from the cellular alpha- and beta-polymerases by fractionation of the cells and by phosphocellulose chromatography. The separated enzymes were examined for the effect of added (NH4)2SO4, activity with synthetic templates, optimal pH, and the effect of phosphonoacetic acid. The VZV-induced DNA polymerase was distinct from cellular enzymes and had the properties of a typical herpesvirus-induced DNA polymerase.
Abstract ::: In tissue culture phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) specifically inhibited DNA synthesis of human cytomegalovirus (CMV), murine CMV, simian CMV, Epstein-Barr virus, and Herpesvirus saimiri. Fifty to one hundred micrograms per milliliter PAA completely inhibited viral DNA synthesis with no significant damage to host cell DNA synthesis. In vitro DNA polymerization assays showed that 10 μg/ml of PAA specifically inhibited partially purified human CMV-induced DNA polymerase, while little inhibition of host-cell DNA polymerase activity was found. The specific inhibition of herpes-group virus DNA synthesis with little toxicity to host cells suggests that PAA has great potential as an antiherpesvirus therapeutic agent.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) establishes a latent infection in the trigeminal ganglia of mice infected via the eye. In these ganglia three viral transcripts, of 2.0, 1.5, and 1.45 kilobases (kb), which are at least partially colinear, have been identified by Northern (RNA) blot analysis. These RNAs partially overlap ICPO, but are transcribed in the opposite direction (J. G. Spivack and N. W. Fraser, J. Virol. 61:3841-3847, 1987). The accumulation of these latency-associated transcripts, as well as other viral RNAs, was studied during an acute infection and the reactivation of a latent HSV-1 infection in mice. The 2.0-kb latency-associated transcript was detected in trigeminal ganglia of mice as early as 4 days postinfection, and the 1.45- and 1.5-kb RNA doublet was detected at 14 days postinfection. The levels of these latency-associated transcripts increased steadily over a 60-day period. In contrast, other HSV-1 transcripts were detected at 2 to 3 days postinfection, reached a peak on day 4, and rapidly declined below detectable levels by day 7. The data indicate that the temporal expression of the latency-associated genes during acute infection in the trigeminal ganglia of mice is different from the temporal expression of genes involved in HSV-1 replication. During the reactivation of latent HSV-1 from explanted trigeminal ganglia, the latency-associated RNAs decreased about twofold, but were present at significant levels even after HSV-1 DNA increased and infectious virus was recovered. The decrease of the latency-associated transcripts occurred when reactivation was blocked by phosphonoacetic acid or novobiocin, which suggests that this decrease may be an early event in the entry of latent HSV-1 into the viral replication cycle.
A 70-kDa chloroplast (ct) DNA polymerase from pea has been purified to apparent homogeneity. The ct DNA polymerase was insensitive to dideoxynucleotides (d2 NTP) but showed high sensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid. The enzyme lacked any detectable 5′→3′ exonuclease activity but showed 3′→5′ exonuclease activity. The polymerase displayed high processivity (3 kb) and moderate fidelity, which may be sufficient for the faithful replication of the 140-kb pea ct genome. A 43-kDa accessory protein increased the polymerization rate but did not affect the rate of mis-incorporation in vitro, thus indicating that the domains for polymerisation and proof reading may be spatially separate.
It was monitored the dissolution process of 1018 steel in simulated cooling water during the transient and steady state conditions with time. Dissolution and growth of corrosion product layers were following using a linear flow cell and flow magnetic-induced cell. By using Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy, it was analyzed the dissolution and inhibition process. The growth of a layer when adding hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid, inhibits metal dissolution and it presents two different influences at the interface for impedance response. They showed that new layer forms in a simple array depending on the flow regimen and the hydroxypphosphonoacetic group added to the surface. After stabilization time of 5 hours in absence of inhibitor, continuous growth and dissolution of a layer changed the electrical characteristics for the scaling and corrosion product due to flow regimen. Electrical passive elements described qualitatively the characteristics of the layer formation due to inhibitor addition.
Carboxylic acids possessing a strong electron-withdrawing group in the α-position undergo facile dehydration upon reaction with carbodiimides to form the corresponding substituted ketenes that can react in situ with alcohols providing esters in a high yield. The ketene formed by the treatment of ethyl 2-methylmalonate with DCC was trapped in situ by a [4+2] cycloaddition with a second DCC molecule. The chemoselectivity of the acylation through the ketene intermediates was found to be substantially different from that of conventional acylation reagents showing a very low sensitivity toward the steric bulk of alcohols. A comparison of the sensitivity of the acylation to the steric bulk of alcohols supports the presence of a pseudopericyclic pathway for the nucleophilic addition of alcohols to ketenes derived from ethyl malonic and diethylphosphonoacetic acid.
Brush-border membrane vesicles (BBMV) from chick (Gallus gallus) kidneys were used to examine possible pathways of Pi transport associated with Pi secretion. Preloading with 6 mM Pi trans-stimulated 32Pi uptake in the absence of Na+, indicating facilitation. Inside-positive voltage (100 mM K+, out > in, +valinomycin) increased Pi uptake from 161 +/- 4.4 to 241 +/- 16.1 pmol.mg protein-1.5s-1 at pH 7.5 (in = out). Gradients characterized by extravesicular pH (pHo) of 5.5 vs. intravesicular pH (pHi) of 7.5, 100 mM K+ (out > in), without and with valinomycin, further increased uptake to 664 +/- 148.5 and 946 +/- 90.8 pmol.mg protein-1.5s-1, respectively. Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) had no effect on the latter response, but with 100 mM K+ (in = out), valinomycin decreased the response more than one-half, implicating a H+ diffusion potential. Generation of this potential with pHo 5.5 vs. pHi 7.5 and CCCP did not drive concentrative Pi uptake in absence of K+. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) treatment significantly increased this BBMV K(+)- and voltage-dependent Pi up-take compared with the parathyroidectomized (PTX) condition. The values of maximal uptake rate (Vmax) in PTH vs. PTX BBMV were 5,330 and 1,976 pmol.mg protein-1.5s-1, respectively. K(+)-dependent transport was inhibited by arsenate, phosphonoacetic acid, and vanadate. Together, the data indicate that this PTH-sensitive, voltage- and K(+)-dependent monovalent Pi transporter could be the mechanism by which Pi exits, cell-to-lumen, during renal tubular Pi secretion.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is one of the high population malignant tumors among Chinese in southern China and southeast Asia. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human B lymphotropic herpes virus which is known to be closely associated with NPC. EBV DNA polymerase is a key enzyme during EBV replication and is measured by its radioactivity. The addition of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate to Raji cell cultures led to a large increase in EBV DNA polymerase, which was purified by sequential DEAE-cellulose, phosphocellulose and DNA-cellulose column chromatography. Four tannins were isolated from the active fractions of Eugenia uniflora L., which were tested for the inhibition of EBV DNA polymerase. The results showed the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) values of gallocatechin, oenothein B, eugeniflorins D(1) and D(2) were 26.5 62.3, 3.0 and 3.5 microM, respectively. Furthermore, when compared with the positive control (phosphonoacetic acid), an inhibitor of EBV replication, the IC(50) value was 16.4 microM. In view of the results, eugeniflorins D(1) and D(2) are the potency principles in the inhibition of EBV DNA polymerase from E. uniflora.
In tissue culture phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) specifically inhibited DNA synthesis of human cytomegalovirus (CMV), murine CMV, simian CMV, Epstein-Barr virus, and Herpesvirus saimiri. Fifty to one hundred micrograms per milliliter PAA completely inhibited viral DNA synthesis with no significant damage to host cell DNA synthesis. In vitro DNA polymerization assays showed that 10 gg/ml of PAA specifically inhibited partially purified human CMVinduced DNA polymerase, while little inhibition of host-cell DNA polymerase activity was found. The specific inhibition of herpes-group virus DNA synthesis with little toxicity to host cells suggests that PAA has great potential as an antiherpesvirus therapeutic agent.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) has been shown to be a very active compound against herpes simplex dermititis in mice and herpes simplex keratitis in rabbits (l1). In tissue culture replication of herpes simplex virus and viral DNA are impeded by PAA while host-cell function remains unharmed. In a study with partially purified herpes simplex virus-induced DNA polymerase, Mao et al. (7) demonstrated that the inhibition involved direct interaction between the compound and the virus-induced DNA polymerase.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) establishes a latent infection in the trigeminal ganglia of mice infected via the eye. In these ganglia three viral transcripts, of 2.0, 1.5, and 1.45 kilobases (kb), which are at least partially colinear, have been identified by Northern (RNA) blot analysis. These RNAs partially overlap ICPO, but are transcribed in the opposite direction (J. G. Spivack and N. W. Fraser, J. Virol. 61:3841-3847, 1987). The accumulation of these latency-associated transcripts, as well as other viral RNAs, was studied during an acute infection and the reactivation of a latent HSV-1 infection in mice. The 2.0-kb latency-associated transcript was detected in trigeminal ganglia of mice as early as 4 days postinfection, and the 1.45-and 1.5-kb RNA doublet was detected at 14 days postinfection. The levels of these latency-associated transcripts increased steadily over a 60-day period. In contrast, other HSV-1 transcripts were detected at 2 to 3 days postinfection, reached a peak on day 4, and rapidly declined below detectable levels by day 7. The data indicate that the temporal expression of the latency-associated genes during acute infection in the trigeminal ganglia of mice is different from the temporal expression of genes involved in HSV-1 replication. During the reactivation of latent HSV-1 from explanted trigeminal ganglia, the latency-associated RNAs decreased about twofold, but were present at significant levels even after HSV-1 DNA increased and infectious virus was recovered. The decrease of the latency-associated transcripts occurred when reactivation was blocked by phosphonoacetic acid or novobiocin, which suggests that this decrease may be an early event in the entry of latent HSV-1 into the viral replication cycle.
In the present study the expression of the latency-associated transcripts in the trigeminal ganglia of mice was monitored during the acute infection and reactivation of the latent infection. These data demonstrate that (i) during an acute infection the transcripts of a number of HSV-1 genes involved in the lytic replication cycle rapidly increase and decrease over a 7-day period; (ii) the latency-associated transcripts are first expressed during the acute infection, and their levels continue to increase thereafter; (iii) during reactivation of the latent infection the latency-associated transcripts decrease, but remain at significant levels even after reactivated virus is detectable; and (iv) the decrease in the latency-associated transcripts occurs even when reactivation is blocked by phosphonoacetic acid or novobiocin, suggesting that the decrease may be a critical early event in the reactivation process, rather than a secondary consequence of reactivation.
Both (E)5(2-bromovinyl).dUrd and (E>5S(2-iodovinyl).dUrd were highly selective in their anti-herpes activity in that they did not affect the growth or metabolism of the host (primary rabbit kidney) cells unless drug concentrations were used that were 5,000-to 10,000-fold greater than those required to inhibit virus multiplication. In this sense (E-5-2-bromovinyl Idoxuridine (5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine) and trifluorothymidine (5-trifluoromethyl-2'-deoxyuridine) are among the best known antiviral agents currently used in the chemotherapy of-herpesvirus infections (1). Their clinical usefulness is restricted to the topical treatment of local herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections such as herpetic keratitis and "cold sores" (herpes labialis). The unfavorable therapeutic index of Idoxuridine when administered parenterally-as most dramatically exemplified by its inefficacy in patients with herpes simplex encephalitis (2)-has prompted the search for more effective and less toxic anti-herpes agents. In recent years several compounds have been described which are all endowed with selective anti-herpes properties. These compounds include phosphonoacetic acid (3, 4), phosphonoformic acid (5, 6), 9-f3-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (araA) (7, 8), 5-iodo-5'-amino-2',5'-dideoxyuridine (AIDDU) (9, 10), 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine (acycloguanosine) (11, 12), 1-f3-D-arabinofuranosylthymine (araT) (13, 14), 5-iodo-and 5-bromo-2'-deoxycytidine (15, 16), 5,6-dihydro-5-azathymidine (17, 18), and erythro-9-[3-(2-hydroxy- vinyl)-dUrd. These compounds surpassed all previously described anti-herpes agents, including acycloguanosine, in both potency and selectivity, at least in primary rabbit kidney (PRK) cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). Compounds 5-Vinyl-dUrd, 5-ethynyl-dUrd, (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-dUrd, and (E)-5-(2-iodovinyl)-dUrd were obtained by condensing the trimethylsilyl derivatives of the appropriate 5-substituted uracils with 2'-deoxy-3,5-di-0-p-toluoyl-a-D-erythropentofuranosyl chloride to give a mixture of the a-and f3-anomers of the protected nucleosides. T anomers were separated by chromatography on silica gel and the p-toluoyl protecting groups were removed by treatment with sodium methoxide in methanol. The results indicated for the biological experiments were all obtained by using the f3-anomers (Fig. 1) . The a-anomers were also tested for biological activity, but they were inactive. The synthesis of 25) . The synthesis of (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-dUrd, (E)-5-(2-iodovinyl)-dUrd, and 5-(1-chlorovinyl)-dUrd has been published elsewhere (ref. 26 and unpublished data). The structures assigned to these compounds were established by elemental analysis and UV and NMR spectroscopy.
The sources of the "standard" anti-herpes compounds were as follows: 5-iodo-dUrd, Ludeco (Brussels); 5-trifluoromethyl-dUrd, Sigma; phosphonoacetic acid, Abbott; acycloguanosine, Wellcome (Beckenham, England; courtesy of G. B. Abbreviations: PRK cells, primary rabbit kidney cells; HSF, human skin fibroblast; PFU, plaque-forming units; HSV-1, herpes simplex virus type 1; araA, 9-/-D-arabinofuranosyladenine; araC, 1-f3-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine; araT, 1-(3-D-arabinofuranosylthymine; AIDDU, 5-iodo-5'-amino-2',5'-dideoxyuridine; EHNA, erythro-9-[3-(2-hydroxynonyl)]adenine; IDso, mean infective dose.
Abstract Vaccinia virus is the prototypic poxvirus. The 192 kilobase double-stranded DNA viral genome encodes most if not all of the viral replication machinery. The vaccinia virus DNA polymerase is encoded by the E9L gene. Sequence analysis indicates that E9 is a member of the B family of replicative polymerases. The enzyme has both polymerase and 3′-5′ exonuclease activities, both of which are essential to support viral replication. Genetic analysis of E9 has identified residues and motifs whose alteration can confer temperature-sensitivity, drug resistance (phosphonoacetic acid, aphidicolin, cytosine arabinsode, cidofovir) or altered fidelity. The polymerase is involved both in DNA replication and in recombination. Although inherently distributive, E9 gains processivity by interacting in a 1:1 stoichiometry with a heterodimer of the A20 and D4 proteins. A20 binds to both E9 and D4 and serves as a bridge within the holoenzyme. The A20/D4 heterodimer has been purified and can confer processivity on purified E9. The interaction of A20 with D4 is mediated by the N′-terminus of A20. The D4 protein is an enzymatically active uracil DNA glycosylase. The DNA-scanning activity of D4 is proposed to keep the holoenzyme tethered to the DNA template but allow polymerase translocation. The crystal structure of D4, alone and in complex with A20 1-50 and/or DNA has been solved. Screens for low molecular weight compounds that interrupt the A20 1-50 /D4 interface have yielded hits that disrupt processive DNA synthesis in vitro and/or inhibit plaque formation. The observation that an active DNA repair enzyme is an integral part of the holoenzyme suggests that DNA replication and repair may be coupled.
We have identified two encoded proteins with an antiserum raised against a synthetic oligopeptide corresponding to amino acids 671 to 684 of the predicted protein product of gene UL47 of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). They have apparent M ::: rs of 82000 and 81000 and are both major virion components located in the tegument. The 82/81K proteins were first detected in infected cells in minor amounts 6 h after infection at 37 °C but were later (from 10 h until 24 h after infection) present in large amounts. UL47 regulation was investigated using phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), an inhibitor of DNA synthesis: the amounts of the 82/81K protein synthesized were compared with those of 65KDBP, an early gene product, and 21K/22K, a true late gene product. The data showed that UL47 is regulated as a true late gene.
The ideal antiviral agent would be one which, while inhibiting growth of the virus, had little or no toxic effect on a host cell. That such a compound with anti herpes virus activity appeared to exist was first shown by Shipkowitz et al. (1973) who in random screening experiments discovered the antiviral activity of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). These early findings indicated that the compound was active against herpes simplex virus as herpes dermatitis in mice and herpes keratitis in rabbits, with little apparently serious effect on the animals themselves. Details of chemical structure are discussed by Dr Fox elsewhere in this supplement.
Fosfazinomycins A and B produced by Streptomyces lavendofoliae share the same phosphonate moiety with one chiral centre of unknown configuration which was determined by synthesising both enantiomers of 2-hydroxy-2-phosphonoacetic acid methyl ester. A chiral cyclic phosphite was reacted with methyl glyoxylate in a Pudovik reaction to give a pair of diastereomeric α-hydroxyphosphonates, which were separated by HPLC. The configurations at C-2 were assigned on the basis of single crystal X-ray structure analysis. Deprotection of these diastereomers furnished the enantiomeric α-hydroxyphosphonic acids, of which the (S)-configured had the same sign of optical rotation as the phosphonic acid moiety of the two fosfazinomycins.
In order to ascertain the identity of the DNA-dependent DNA polymerase responsible for the observed DNA synthesis in nuclei isolated from baby-hamster kidney (BHK-21/C13) cells a comparative study was carried out on the effects of some drugs, reported to influence DNA synthesis, on DNA synthesis catalysed by these nuclei and by partially purified DNA polymerase-alpha and -beta. In all cases DNA synthesis by isolated nuclei and polymerase-alpha was inhibited to similar extents by N-ethylmaleimide, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, novobiocin, heparin and phosphonoacetic acid; polymerase-beta was much less affected by these compounds. Ethidium bromide inhibited all DNA synthesis to similar extents, although at low concentrations (about 2 microgram/ml) synthesis in isolated nuclei was stimulated. The results are discussed in relation to the proposal that DNA polymerase-alpha catalyses the covalent extension of Okazaki fragments that these nuclei carry out in vitro.
This is the first study documenting the induction of gamma-interferon (IFN-gamma) in human embryonic fibroblasts during human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) replication. Infection of cells with HCMV resulted in the consistent production of IFN-gamma RNA, as determined by RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis. Western blot analysis of cell lysates and immunoprecipitates from the cultural fluids of infected cells demonstrated the presence of IFN-gamma at the protein level. Induction of IFN-gamma required infectious HCMV, since high-dose ultraviolet inactivation of the virus stock eliminated IFN-gamma production. Further, IFN-gamma induction appears to be a late event in the virus replication cycle, since inhibition of HCMV DNA synthesis (e.g., phosphonoacetic acid) blocked the increase in IFN-gamma. Soluble factor(s) released from HCMV-infected cells apparently did not contribute to the induction of IFN-gamma, since virus stocks from which virus had been removed by sedimentation did not induce production of IFN-gamma. The appearance of IFN-gamma at late stages of HCMV infection and its elimination in the presence of an inhibitor (Actinomycin D) of RNA synthesis indicate a true transcriptional induction of this lymphokine at the RNA and protein levels. The significance of IFN-gamma production with regard to the replication and pathogenesis of HCMV in vitro and in vivo will require further investigation.
Abstract African swine fever virus (ASFV) growth and plaque formation were inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) concentrations of 200 μg/ml or more. One spontaneous mutant and two mutants isolated from mutagenized virus were resistant to PAA inhibition and showed practically normal viral DNA synthesis in the presence of PAA. DNA polymerase activity present in the cytoplasmic fraction from cells infected with the mutants required 10-fold higher concentrations of PAA for inhibition compared to equivalent inhibition of the wild-type enzyme. Like wild-type virus, the PAA-resistant mutants were resistant to inhibition by aphidicolin. Marker rescue analysis with mutant DNA fragments covering different regions of the ASFV DNA polymerase gene mapped the mutations within a fragment which was cloned and sequenced. A single nucleotide and amino acid change was assigned to each mutant. Two of the PAA-resistant mutations lie within the highly conserved region II common to alpha-like DNA polymerases, which has been implicated in pyrophosphate binding and probably also in dNTP binding. The other mutation was localized to within a region of moderate homology among viral DNA polymerases close to one of the motifs allegedly considered as constituting the 3′–5′ exonuclease active site.
ADNA-temperature-sensitive mutantofherpessimplexvirustype 1 exhibit-ingthermolabile DNApolymerase activity, tsD9, wasshownto beresistant tophosphonoacetic acid (PAA) when plated at the permissive temperature. ts+revertants oftsD9werePAAsensitive andexhibited DNApolymerase activityintermediate betweenthatofthewild-type virusandtsD9, indicatingthatbothtemperaturesensitivity andsensitivity to PAAarecontrolledbythesamegene.
Inhibition of type-1 herpes simplex strains resistant to acyclovir, phosphonoacetic acid and their combination by combined use of three drugs with different mechanisms of action capable of suppressing reproduction of the acyclovir resistant strain was studied. The combinations used were the following: Ara-A + ribavirin + phosphonoformic acid, Xylo-A + ribavirin + phosphonoformic acid and Ph-ACH + Ara-A + ribavirin. The former two combinations had a synergistic action on the standard strain L2 whose drug susceptibility had not undergone changes as well as on the acyclovir resistant strain. As for the strain resistant to phosphonoacetic acid and to acyclovir + phosphonoacetic acid the effect was additive. Ph-ACH + Ara-A + ribavirin had a marked synergistic action on all the strains tested.
We have previously shown that two inhibitors specific for cellular cyclin-dependent kinases (cdks), Roscovitine (Rosco) and Olomoucine (Olo), block the replication of herpes simplex virus (HSV). Based on these results, we demonstrated that HSV replication requires cellular cdks that are sensitive to these drugs (L. M. Schang, J. Phillips, and P. A. Schaffer. J. Virol. 72:5626–5637, 1998). We further established that at least two distinct steps in the viral replication cycle require cdks: transcription of immediate-early (IE) genes and transcription of early (E) genes (L. M. Schang, A. Rosenberg, and P. A. Schaffer, J. Virol. 73:2161–2172, 1999). Since Rosco inhibits HSV replication efficiently even when added to infected cells at 6 h postinfection, we postulated that cdks may also be required for viral functions that occur after E gene expression. In the study presented herein, we tested this hypothesis directly by measuring the efficiency of viral replication, viral DNA synthesis, and expression of several viral genes during infections in which Rosco was added after E proteins had already been synthesized. Rosco inhibited HSV replication, and specifically viral DNA synthesis, when the drug was added at the time of release from a 12-h phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-induced block in viral DNA synthesis. Inhibition of DNA synthesis was not a consequence of inhibition of expression of IE or E genes in that Rosco had no effect on steady-state levels of two E transcripts under the same conditions in which it inhibited viral DNA synthesis. Moreover, viral DNA synthesis was inhibited by Rosco even in the absence of protein synthesis. In a second series of experiments, the replication of four HSV mutants harboring temperature-sensitive mutations in genes essential for viral DNA replication was inhibited when Rosco was added at the time of shift-down from the nonpermissive to the permissive temperature. Viral DNA synthesis was inhibited by Rosco under these conditions, whereas expression of viral E genes was not affected. We conclude that cellular Rosco-sensitive cdks are required for replication of viral DNA in the presence of viral E proteins. This requirement may indicate that HSV DNA synthesis is functionally linked to transcription, which requires cdks, or that both viral transcription and DNA replication, independently, require viral or cellular factors activated by Rosco-sensitive cdks.
Fosfazinomycins A and B produced by Streptomyces lavendofoliae share the same phosphonate moiety with one chiral centre of unknown configuration which was determined by synthesising both enantiomers of 2-hydroxy-2-phosphonoacetic acid methyl ester. A chiral cyclic phosphite was reacted with methyl glyoxylate in a Pudovik reaction to give a pair of diastereomeric α-hydroxyphosphonates, which were separated by HPLC. The configurations at C-2 were assigned on the basis of single crystal X-ray structure analysis.
In order to ascertain the identity of the DNA-dependent DNA polymerase responsible for the observed DNA synthesis in nuclei isolated from baby-hamster kidney (BHK-21/ C1 3) cells a comparative study was carried out on the effects of some drugs, reported to influence DNA synthesis, on DNA synthesis catalysed by these nuclei and by partially purified DNA polymerase-a and -jo. In all cases DNA synthesis by isolated nuclei and polymerase-a was inhibited to similar extents by N-ethylmaleimide, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate, novobiocin, heparin and phosphonoacetic acid; polymerase-,B was much less affected by these compounds. Ethidium bromide inhibited all DNA synthesis to similar extents, although at low concentrations (about 2,ug/ml) synthesis in isolated nuclei was stimulated. The results are discussed in relation to the proposal that DNA polymerase-a catalyses the covalent extension of Okazaki fragments that these nuclei carry out in vitro.
Two high resolution crystal structures of Escherichia coli alkaline phosphatase (AP) in the presence of phosphonate inhibitors are reported. The phosphonate compounds, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and mercaptomethylphosphonic acid (MMP), bind competitively to AP with dissociation constants of 5.5 and 0.6 mM, respectively. The structures of the complexes of AP with PAA and MMP were refined at high resolution to crystallographic R-values of 19.0 and 17.5%, respectively. Refinement of the AP-inhibitor complexes was carried out using X-PLOR. The final round of refinement was done using SHELXL-97. Crystallographic analyses of the inhibitor complexes reveal different binding modes for the two phosphonate compounds. The significant difference in binding constants can be attributed to these alternative binding modes observed in the high resolution X-ray structures. The phosphinyl group of PAA coordinates to the active site zinc ions in a manner similar to the competitive inhibitor and product inorganic phosphate. In contrast, MMP binds with its phosphonate moiety directed toward solvent. Both enzyme-inhibitor complexes exhibit close contacts, one of which has the chemical and geometrical potential to be considered an unconventional hydrogen bond of the type C-H...X.
Reactions of Mg 2+ (1), Ca 2+ (2), Sr 2+ (3), or Ba 2+ (4) salts with hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA) at a 1:1 ratio yield M-HPAA layered coordination polymers. The crystal structures of 3 (two phases) and 4 have been determined by single crystal X-ray crystallography. Both stereoisomers (R and S) of HPAA are incorporated in the metal-HPAA materials. Synergistic combinations of Sr 2+ or Ba 2+ and HPAA at pH 7.3 are effective corrosion inhibitors for carbon steel, but are ineffective at pH 2.0.
Thermodynamic acid dissociation constants were determined for phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) in aqueous solution at 25°C by coulometric titrations at different ionic strengths and extrapolation of the results to I=0. The respective values are pK1∼2.0, pK2=5.11±0.04, and pK3=8.69±0.05. The enthalpy and entropy of dissociation for the second and the third dissociation steps, determined from the temperature dependence of pK's, are ΔH2o=0.2±0.3 kcal-mole−1, ΔS2o=22.6±0.9 e.u., ΔH3o=1.3±0.4 kcal-mole−1, and ΔS3o=11.7±0.4 e.u. Phosphorus-31 and carbon-13 NMR studies of PAA solutions as a function of pH gave the deprotonation sequence of the triacid. Acidity constants were also determined for phosphonoformic acid, 2-phosphonopropionic acid, and 3-phosphonopropionic acid at an ionic strenght of 0.05.
When human embryonic fibroblasts (HEF) were infected with herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2), replicative viral DNA synthesis and some repair synthesis of cellular DNA were induced at the early stage of infection, but almost all DNA synthesis at the late stage of infection was derived from repair synthesis of cellular and viral DNA (Y. Nishiyama and F. Rapp, Virology 110, 466-475, 1981). In this study, we have assessed the effects of DNA polymerase inhibitors on repair DNA synthesis HSV-2-infected HEF. Both viral and cellular DNA syntheses during the late stage of infection were extremely resistant to aphidicolin and phosphonoacetic acid but partially sensitive to high concentrations of 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine, while replicative viral DNA synthesis during the early stage of infection was very sensitive to all of those inhibitors. The results suggest that neither HSV-induced DNA polymerase nor cellular DNA polymerase alpha was involved in the repair synthesis of viral and cellular DNA but that cellular DNA polymerase beta was.
In early recurrent herpetic lesions, CD4 T lymphocytes are the predominant infiltrating cells, and keratinocytes expressing major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens, induced by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), are the major site of herpes simplex virus (HSV) replication. IFN-gamma pretreatment of human keratinocytes in vitro reduced MHC class I antigen down-regulation by HSV-1 infection and induced expression of HLA-DR that was unaltered by subsequent HSV-1 infection. Incubation of these infected keratinocytes with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) almost completely inhibited expression of four major HSV glycoproteins, although expression of early proteins was not affected. Weak CD8 T lymphocyte cytotoxicity against IFN-gamma-stimulated, HLA-DR-expressing HSV-1-infected keratinocytes was consistently directed to the immediate early/early proteins (all 9 patients tested) but against late proteins to a lesser degree (4/9 patients). However, CD4 T lymphocyte cytotoxicity was much greater and directed predominantly against late HSV-1 glycoproteins (all 9 subjects tested) in these cells.
The BamHI J fragment of the pseudorabies virus (PRV) genome has not been associated with any viral transcripts during viral replication. In this report, data are presented to show that a portion of BamHI-J is transcribed during a productive infection. Four oligo(dT)-cellulose-selected RNA species were detected by hybridization with probes derived from BamHI-J. These RNAs were partially colinear, and they were transcribed in the opposite orientation with respect to the immediate-early gene (IE180) of PRV. At least one of the transcripts overlapped (antisense) the coding sequence of IE180 by 450 nucleotides. Expression of these RNAs was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that they are transcripts of PRV late genes. There were several similarities between these RNAs and the latency-associated transcripts detected in the trigeminal ganglia of swine latently infected with PRV (A. K. Cheung, J. Virol. 63: 2908-2913, 1989).
The enzyme adenosine kinase (AK) exhibits a nearly complete dependency on the presence of pentavalent ions (PVI) such as phosphate, arsenate, and vanadate. To understand its basis, the effect of a large number of phosphorylated compounds on AK activity was examined. Several compounds, such as phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate, phosphoenol pyruvate, creatine phosphate, phosphorous acid, phosphonoformic acid, and inorganic pyrophosphate, were found to substitute for PVI in stimulating AK activity. Similar to PVI, these compounds lowered the Km of AK for adenosine. In contrast, many other structurally related compounds (i.e., phosphonoacetic acid, 2-carboxyethyl phosphonic acid, N-phosphonomethyl glycine, N-phosphonomethyl iminodiacetic acid) inhibited AK activity. These compounds seemed to compete with the activators for binding to AK. Structural comparisons of different compounds indicate that all activating compounds contain a net positive charge on the pentavalent atom (e.g., phosphorous), which should enable it to act as an acceptor for a nucleophilic group. We suggest that a phosphate (or other activator) bound near the active site participates in AK catalysis by forming a transient pentavalent intermediate with a nonbridging oxygen of the β-phosphate in ATP. This interaction likely facilitates the transfer of γ-phosphate from ATP to adenosine, thus accounting for the stimulating role of PVI in AK catalysis. The insight provided by these studies concerning the structural features of activators and inhibitors should also prove helpful in the design of more potent inhibitors of AK.
The antiviral activities of extracts from 5 species of marine algae collected at Haeundae (Pusan, Korea), were examined using plaque reduction assays. Although the activity of a methanol (MeOH) extract of Sargassum ringoldianum (Sargassaceae) was the most potent against several types of viruses, it was also cytotoxic. A MeOH extract of Symphyocladia latiuscula (Rhodomelaceae) and its fractions exhibited antiviral activities against acyclovir (ACV) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant (APr) herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1), thymidine kinase (TK−) deficient HSV-1 and wild type HSV-1 in vitro without cytotoxicity. The major component, 2,3,6-tribromo-4,5-dihydroxybenzyl methyl ether (TDB) of a CH2Cl2-soluble fraction was active against wild type HSV-1, as well as APr HSV-1 and TK− HSV-1 (IC50 values of 5.48, 4.81 and 23.3 μg/ml, respectively). The therapeutic effectiveness of the MeOH extract and TDB from S. latiuscula was further examined in BALB/c mice that were cutaneously infected with HSV-1 strain 7401H. Three daily oral administrations of the MeOH extract and TDB significantly delayed the appearance of score 2 skin lesions (local vesicles) and limited the development of further score 6 (mild zosteriform) lesions in infected mice without toxicity compared with controls. In addition, TDB suppressed virus yields in the brain and skin. Therefore TDB should be a promising anti HSV agent.
Mutations that conferred sensitivity to the pyrophosphate analog phosphonoacetic acid in bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase were identified. The mutations were loosely clustered in four regions of the gene. As found for herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase, T4 mutations that altered sensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid also altered sensitivity to nucleotide analogs. Some of the T4 DNA polymerase mutations also altered the ability of the enzyme to translocate from one template position to the next and affected DNA replication fidelity. Kornberg (A. Kornberg, Science 163:1410-1418, 1969) envisioned a DNA polymerase active center which accommodates primer terminus and template DNAs and the incoming nucleotide. Some mutations identified on the basis of sensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid may be part of such an active center because single amino acid substitutions simultaneously alter several DNA polymerase functions.
Mutants of Varicella-Zoster Virus (VZV) which are resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), bromodeoxyuridine (BuDR), and acyclovir (ACV) were obtained by serial passages of VZV with increasing concentrations of these drugs. A PAA-resistant mutant and a BuDR-resistant mutant were found also to be resistant to ACV. Five of 8 ACV-resistant mutants acquired resistance to PAA, but none acquired resistance to BuDR. The BuDR-resistant mutant did not induce viral thymidine kinase (TK) activity, but all the ACV-resistant mutants selected in ACV showed viral TK activity which was suppressed with anti-VZV serum and had almost the same electrophoretic mobility as that of the parent strain on polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in non-denaturing conditions. However, in competitive TK assay with ACV, 2 of 8 ACV-resistant mutants showed no change of phosphorylation of radioactive thymidine, while the other 6 showed decreased phosphorylation of radioactive thymidine. It was suggested that TK induced by the former 2 ACV-resistant mutants had lost affinity to ACV, and so the mutants could grow in the presence of ACV. Thus of the 8 ACV-resistant mutants selected in ACV, 2 were sensitive to PAA with altered TK activity, 5 were resistant to PAA with unaltered TK activity, and 1 was sensitive to PAA with unaltered TK activity, and may have altered DNA polymerase activity to ACV, retaining sensitivity to PAA. These results suggest that resistance of VZV to ACV results from alterations in the virus-specified TK or DNA polymerase, as demonstrated in HSV resistant to ACV.
The BamHI J fragment of the pseudorabies virus (PRV) genome has not been associated with any viral transcripts during viral replication. In this report, data are presented to show that a portion of BamHI-J is transcribed during a productive infection. Four oligo(dT)-cellulose-selected RNA species were detected by hybridization with probes derived from BamHI-J. These RNAs were partially colinear, and they were transcribed in the opposite orientation with respect to the immediate-early gene (IE180) of PRV. At least one of the transcripts overlapped (antisense) the coding sequence of IE180 by 450 nucleotides. Expression of these RNAs was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that they are transcripts of PRV late genes. There were several similarities between these RNAs and the latency-associated transcripts detected in the trigeminal ganglia of swine latently infected with PRV (A. K. Cheung, J. Virol. 63:2908Virol. 63: -2913Virol. 63: , 1989 More than 80 PRV-specific RNAs have been detected (there are some duplications) in PRV-infected cells, and their general locations have been ascribed to various regions of the viral genome (2). The entire viral genome, with the exception of the BamHI J fragment, has been associated with RNAs of one or more classes. BamHI-J is approximately 4.8 kilobases (kb) and is located at 0.706 to 0.737 map units (Fig. 1) . Since BamHI-J contains a portion (approximately 1.8 kb) of the internal repeat sequence, the same transcription inactivity reported is implied for the BamHI 0 fragment, the duplicated terminal repeat sequence at 0.99 to 1.00 map units.
Mutations in five phenotypically distinct mutants derived from herpes simplex virus type 1 strain KOS which lie in or near the herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase (pol) locus have been fine mapped with the aid of cloned fragments of mutant and wild-type viral DNAs to distinct restriction fragments of 1.1 kilobase pairs (kbp) or less. DNA sequences containing a mutation or mutations conferring resistance to the antiviral drugs phosphonoacetic acid, acyclovir, and arabinosyladenine of pol mutant PAAr5 have been cloned as a 27-kbp Bg+II fragment in Escherichia coli. These drug resistance markers have been mapped more finely in marker transfer experiments to a 1.1-kbp fragment (coordinates 0.427 to 0.434). In intratypic marker rescue experiments, temperature-sensitive (ts), phosphonoacetic acid resistance, and acyclovir resistance markers of pol mutant tsD9 were mapped to a 0.8-kbp fragment at the left end of the EcoRI M fragment (coordinates 0.422 to 0.427). The ts mutation of pol mutant tsC4 maps within a 0.3-kbp sequence (coordinates 0.420 to 0.422), whereas that of tsC7 lies within the 1.1-kbp fragment immediately to the left (coordinates 0.413 to 0.420). tsC4 displays the novel phenotype of hypersensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid; however, the phosphonoacetic acid hypersensitivity phenotype is almost certainly not due to the mutation(s) conferring temperature sensitivity. The ts mutation of mutant tsN20--which does not affect DNA polymerase activity--maps to a 0.5-kbp fragment at the right-hand end of the EcoRI M fragment (coordinates 0.445 to 0.448). The mapping of the mutations in these five mutants further defines the limits of the pol locus and separates mutations differentially affecting catalytic functions of the polymerase.
ABSTRACT The objective of this study was to investigate the effect(s) of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) infection on the expression of MHC class I molecules in murine fibroblasts. L-cells were infected with BHV-1 at a multiplicity of infection (m.o.i.) of 10 plaque forming units (PFU) per cell, and the expression of MHC class I molecules was analyzed by flow cytometry and immunoprecipitation. Temporal studies revealed a reduction in class I expression beginning at 8 h post infection (p.i.) which reached a maximum between 10 to 16 h p.i. The loss of class I expression was restored in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (30 μg/ml), a late herpesviral protein synthesis inhibitor. However, addition of cycloheximide, a total protein synthesis inhibitor (100 μg/ml), did not result in any difference in class I expression between virus-infected and mock-infected cells. These results suggest that the reduced class I expression is a direct consequence of BHV-1 infection, and that the late viral gene product(s) may b...
Solid-state 31P and 13C magic angle spinning (MAS) NMR spectra were used to characterize pure bisphosphonates and also bisphosphonates adsorbed on hydroxyapatite. Four geminal bisphosphonates, including the clinically used compounds ethane-1-hydroxy-1,1-diphosphonic acid, 3-amino-1-hydroxypropane-1,1-diphosphonic acid and 4-amino-1-hydroxybutane-1,1-diphosphonic acid, five α,ω-bisphosphonates and phosphonoacetic acid were investigated. NMR spectra of pure and adsorbed bisphosphonates differ in the observed linewidths and in the isotropic chemical shifts. The broad lines reflect mainly the poor crystallinity of the adsorbed compounds. Shifts of δiso in both directions do not reveal a correlation with the molecular structures. The molar ratio of phosphonates adsorbed on hydroxyapatite determined by 31P spectra without cross-polarization (CP) is approximately two times larger for geminal bisphosphonates than for α,ω-bisphosphonates and phosphonoacetic acid. 13C CP/MAS spectra of pure and adsorbed bisphosphonates recorded in two cases for identification of adsorbed compounds give additional information about the state of adsorbed compounds. Disodium α,ω-dihydroxypolymethylene-α,ω-bisphosphonates in the solid state show characteristic 13C chemical shifts which are indicative of either odd or even numbers of CH2 groups. Copyright © 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Thin-section electron microscopy of Herpesvirus hominis type 1 (HV-1)-infected HEp-2 cells exposed to 100 micrograms/ml phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) revealed not only a spatial restriction of virus multiplication to a few spheroid bodies in the nucleus, but also a delay in viral development, resulting in the formation of unusual HV-1 particle rosettes around the spheroid bodies. HV-1-infected cells were lacking, however, the small tubular structures known to accumulate at increased rates in the presence of PAA, in HV-2-infected cells.
Magnesium-25 NMR measurements were carried out on aqueous and non-aqueous solutions of magnesium salts. In the former case the25Mg resonance frequency was independent of the concentration or of the counterion. In nonaqueous solvents, however, the resonance frequency was dependent on the solvent, the concentration, and on the nature of the counterion, indicating some cation-anion interactions. Measurements on Mg2+—phosphonoacetic acid mixtures in aqueous solutions gave strong indications of complexation. Only inconclusive evidence was obtained on the complexation of Mg2+ by macro-bicyclic cryptand C211 in methanol solutions, and no evidence of complexation was obtained with macrocycle 12-crown-4 in dimethylformamide solutions.
Abstract Superinfection of Raji cells at high multiplicities with EBV leads to the synthesis of at least nine virus-induced polypeptides. Inhibition of viral DNA synthesis with phosphonoacetic acid greatly reduces the synthesis of certain virus-induced proteins while others are made in apparently normal amounts.
Human Herpesvirus-6 is the etiological agent of Roseola infantum and approximately 12% of heterophile antibody negative infectious mononucleosis. HHV-6 is T-lymphotropic, and readily infects and lyses CD4+ cells. The prevalence rate of HHV-6 in the general population is about 80% (as measured by IFA) with an IgG antibody titer of 1:80. A lower prevalence, however, is observed in some countries. HHV-6 is reactivated in various malignant and non-malignant diseases as well as in Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and transplant patients. Furthermore, elevated antibody titers were also observed in lymphoproliferative disorders, auto-immune diseases and HIV-1 positive AIDS patients. There appears to be some strain variability in HHV-6 isolates. The GS isolates of HHV-6 (prototype) was resistant to Acyclovir, Gancyclovir, but its replication was inhibited by Phosphonoacetic acid and Phosphoformic acid. HHV-7 isolated from healthy individuals showed, by restriction analysis, that 6 out of 11 probes derived from two strains of HHV-6, cross-hybridized with DNA fragments, derived from HHV-7.
We have studied expression of the catalytic subunit of a phosphonoacetic acid-resistant (PAA(r)) DNA polymerase (Pol) of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) strain ANG by recombinant vaccinia virus (VV) engineered with the dominant Ecogpt selection system. In agreement with the vector construction recombinant Pol expression was regulated like a VV late function. De novo-synthesis of the 136-kDa Pol polypeptide was detectable as early as 6 h postinfection, peaked between 10 and 12 h, and correlated with specific polymerase activity. Compared with HSV-1 lytic infection, the recombinant Pol protein exhibited a reduced stability with a half-life of 7 h. Whereas the Pol-associated exonuclease activities, determined from lysates of recombinant VV- and HSV-1-infected cells, were almost identical, the polymerizing activity of recombinant Pol ceased after 10 min of incubation, in correlation with the fact that Pol depends on its cofactor for optimal chain elongation. Kinetics of cellular localization, tracked by a monospecific Pol antibody, revealed that the catalytic subunit initially assembled to a few dot-like nuclear sites, reminiscent of HSV-1 DNA replication compartments. Later during infection, the localization of recombinant Pol matched with that found in lytically HSV-1-infected cells. This study demonstrates that nuclear transport and localization of the Pol subunit is independent of herpesviral functions, and neither requires the presence of herpesviral DNA sequences. Recombinant VV provides a promising alternative to explore protein interactions of the herpesviral replication machinery in their authentic cellular environment.
In a previous study we showed that cells infected with guinea-pig cytomegalovirus (GPCMV) contain large amounts of a non-structural 50K nuclear protein that is detectable by immunoelectron microscopy using monoclonal antibodies. The present study shows that this 50K protein is a DNA-binding protein, as determined by single-stranded DNA affinity chromatography, and a phosphorylated protein as demonstrated by immunoprecipitation using [32P]orthophosphate-labelled cells. This protein binds both viral and host cellular double-stranded and single-stranded DNA, assayed by a simple method using DNA linked to a nylon membrane. Induction of the 50K protein in GPCMV-infected cells was highly dependent on viral DNA synthesis, which was detected by dot hybridization using a cloned GPCMV DNA probe. Synthesis of the 50K protein was significantly impaired when phosphonoacetic acid was added to the culture medium. Induction of the 50K protein was detected about 6 h before the appearance of the 76K viral matrix protein.
We have analyzed the accumulation of herpes simplex virus type 1 RNA of the immediate early (IE; infected cell polypeptide types 4 and 0 [ICP-4 and ICP-0]), early (thymidine kinase), and early late (ICP-5) kinetic classes in the cytoplasm of infected cells in the presence of anisomycin, canavanine, or phosphonoacetic acid and in the course of a normal infection. IE RNAs were overproduced and were the only class of transcript detected in anisomycin-blocked cells. Phosphonoacetic acid treatment resulted in overaccumulation of early RNAs and underaccumulation of early late RNAs. Although low-stringency canavanine treatment resulted in accumulation of RNA from all kinetic classes, high-stringency conditions restricted accumulation of herpes simplex virus type 1 RNAs to the IE class. More importantly, the IE RNAs for ICP-4 and ICP-0 accumulated to a lesser extent under high-stringency canavanine conditions compared with their accumulation in anisomycin-treated cells. Therefore, the absence of newly synthesized viral proteins (anisomysin treatment) and the presence of analog proteins (stringent canavanine treatment) have different consequences with regard to the accumulation of these two IE RNAs. The kinetics of cytoplasmic accumulation for these RNAs was different for each class of RNA. The IE RNAs were detectable at 1 h postinfection and reached a maximum accumulation at ca. 3 h postinfection. The IE RNAs for both ICP-4 and ICP-0 persisted at late times of infection; however, they differed in that the RNA for ICP-4 remained at relatively low levels and the RNA for ICP-0 remained at relatively high levels as compared with their peak levels of accumulation. The 1.4-kilobase RNA for the herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase was detected by 2 h, with maximum accumulation occurring at ca. 5 h postinfection. After the peak of accumulation, the amount of thymidine kinase RNA declined rapidly from 8 to 14 h postinfection. The early late RNA for ICP-5 was detected between 2 and 3 h, after which accumulation increased to a peak between 8 and 10 h postinfection. The level of ICP-5 RNA remained at close to the peak level until 14 h postinfection. We also compared the accumulation of viral mRNAs in the cytoplasm with the rates of synthesis of their respective polypeptides. Our results suggest that translational controls may be involved in the regulation of IE genes but not early or late genes.
The present study investigated the effect of EBV on gene expression and protein synthesis of IL-1 and its natural IL-1R antagonist (IL-1Ra) in human peripheral blood neutrophils. EBV induced a rapid accumulation of IL-1 and IL-lRa mRNA in neutrophils that was associated with the later appearance of considerable amounts of IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-Ra proteins. Approximately 3200 and 610 times more IL-Ra than IL-1alpha a or IL-1beta, respectively, was secreted by neutrophils in response to EBV. The effect induced by EBV cannot reflect an overall metabolic activity of neutrophils, since EBV failed to induce granulocyte-macrophage OF synthesis. Heat-inactivated virus was unable to stimulate cytokine synthesis, whereas UV-irradiated virus retained the full IL-1- and IL-1Ra-inducing potential of the native particle. Furthermore, pretreatment of cells with cycloheximide or phosphonoacetic acid did not abrogate the effect of EBV, suggesting that EBV does not penetrate the cell, but that a virion9s structural molecule is required to induce such an effect. In this respect, neutralization of the viral particles with the mAb 72A1, which is known to react with glycoprotein gp350 of the viral envelope, inhibits the production of IL-1 and IL-1Ra, suggesting that gp350 could be involved in this process. Thus, the elevated levels of IL-1Ra detected for EBV-stimulated neutrophils might be part of a mechanism used by the virus to evade the immune system.
1. ::: ::: The sodium derivatives of acetylacetone and acetoacetic ester react with dimethylphosphoryl chloride to give the corresponding enolphosphates. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 2. ::: ::: The sodium derivative of phosphanoacetic acid is acylated by acetyl chloride at the oxygen atom. ::: ::: ::: ::: ::: 3. ::: ::: The acylation of the Na derivative of the trimethyl ester of phosphonoacetic acid with AcCl gave the trimethyl ester ofα-acetylphosphonoacetic acid. The K derivative of the phosphonoacetic ester is acylated by AcCl at both the carbon and the oxygen.
HEp-2 cells were infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 and labeled with [3H]thymidine and 14C-amino acids. Infected cells or nuclei prepared from them were extracted with Triton X-100 and NaCl, utilizing a method recently described, and the low-speed supernatant (extract) was partially purified by sedimentation on sucrose gradients. A nucleoprotein complex which sedimented as a wide peak around 200S was identified. The nucleoprotein complex contained viral DNA, which banded at the expected density in CsCl isopycnic gradients and was intact after measurements taken on electron microscopic photographic enlargements. The autoradiographic pattern of 14C-labeled proteins after electrophoresis showed that only a few of the virus-specific polypeptides were present in the nucleoprotein complexes, in particular, VP5, VP12, VP15.2, VP19, and VP24. Cellular histones were absent. The extracts and the nucleoprotein complexes were centrifuged to equilibrium in metrizamide density gradients without prefixation. Electron microscopic direct visualization of the nucleoprotein complexes after sucrose or metrizamide purification revealed that the proteins were preferentially associated with one end of the DNA molecule and formed large irregular terminal thickenings or capsid-like transparent shells enclosing polyglobular cores. No nucleosomes were observed on herpes simplex virus nucleoprotein complexes. The same type of complex was detected after phosphonoacetic acid addition, and grossly altered nucleocapsids were formed.
Increasing evidence suggests that regulation of apoptosis in infected cells is associated with several viral infections. The gammaherpesvirus bovine herpesvirus 4 (BHV-4) has been shown to harbor genes with antiapoptotic potentialities. However, here we have demonstrated that productive infection of adherent, permissive cell lines by BHV-4 resulted in a cytopathic effect characterized by induction of apoptosis. This phenomenon was confirmed using different techniques to detect apoptosis and using different virus strains and cell targets. Apoptosis induced by BHV-4 was inhibited by (1) treatment with doses of heparin, which completely inhibited virus attachment and infectivity; (2) UV treatment, which completely abrogated infectivity; and (3) treatment with a dose of phosphonoacetic acid, which blocked virus replication. Virus-induced apoptosis was associated with a down-regulation of Bcl-2 expression and was reduced by Z-VAD-FMK, but not by Z-DEVD-FMK (caspase-3-specific) caspase inhibitors. Inhibition of apoptosis by Z-VAD-FMK treatment during infection did not modify virus yield. Therefore, despite the presence of antiapoptotic genes in its genoma, BHV-4 could complete its cycle of productive infection while inducing apoptosis of infected cells. This finding might have implications for the pathobiology of BHV-4 and other gammaherpesviruses in vivo.
In a previous study we showed that cells infected with guinea-pig cytomegalovirus (GPCMV) contain large amounts of a non-structural 50K nuclear protein that is detectable by immunoelectron microscopy using monoclonal antibodies. The present study shows that this 50K protein is a DNA-binding protein, as determined by singlestranded DNA affinity chromatography, and a phosphorylated protein as demonstrated by immunoprecipitation using [32P]orthophosphate_labelled cells. This protein binds both viral and host cellular double-stranded and single-stranded DNA, assayed by a simple method using DNA linked to a nylon membrane. Induction of the 50K protein in GPCMV-infected cells was highly dependent on viral DNA synthesis, which was detected by dot hybridization using a cloned GPCMV DNA probe. Synthesis of the 50K protein was significantly impaired when phosphonoacetic acid was added to the culture medium. Induction of the 50K protein was detected about 6 h before the appearance of the 76K viral matrix protein.
Increasing evidence suggests that regulation of apoptosis in infected cells is associated with several viral infections. The gammaherpesvirus bovine herpesvirus 4 (BHV-4) has been shown to harbor genes with antiapoptotic potentialities. However, here we have demonstrated that productive infection of adherent, permissive cell lines by BHV-4 resulted in a cytopathic effect characterized by induction of apoptosis. This phenomenon was confirmed using different techniques to detect apoptosis and using different virus strains and cell targets. Apoptosis induced by BHV-4 was inhibited by (1) treatment with doses of heparin, which completely inhibited virus attachment and infectivity; (2) UV treatment, which completely abrogated infectivity; and (3) treatment with a dose of phosphonoacetic acid, which blocked virus replication. Virus-induced apoptosis was associated with a down-regulation of Bcl-2 expression and was reduced by Z-VAD-FMK, but not by Z-DEVD-FMK (caspase-3-specific) caspase inhibitors. Inhibition of apoptosis by Z-VAD-FMK treatment during infection did not modify virus yield. Therefore, despite the presence of antiapoptotic genes in its genoma, BHV-4 could complete its cycle of productive infection while inducing apoptosis of infected cells. This finding might have implications for the pathobiology of BHV-4 and other gammaherpesviruses in vivo.
The particle size distributions (PSDs) of metal oxide powders are often determined by analyzing suspensions of powders using laser diffraction (e.g. Malvern MasterSizer 2000). Particle agglomeration can effectively bias the resulting distribution towards “unrealistic” particle sizes. Solutions to avoid this problem must be found if a particle distribution based on the elemental or primary particle sizes is desired. ::: ::: ::: ::: In this work, the particle size distribution of doped-CeO2 powders was studied. These powders show a crystalline single phase structure of controlled stoichiometry as determined by X-ray diffraction and ICP analysis. The apparent size distribution was found to be a strong function of suspension stability. Dispersant agents (PBTCA and phosphonoacetic acid) and suspension pH affected stability as characterized by zeta potential measurements. Sonication of the suspensions further enhanced particle de-agglomeration. Finally, only the combined effect of a dispersant agent, pH adjustment of the suspension and sonication provided a primary particle size distribution. The results presented in this work can be used in the analysis of similar ceramic powders in which strong particle agglomeration is present.
By successive passages and triple cloning of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) in Vero cell culture in the presence of increasing concentrations of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) a mutant of HSV-1 resistant to PAA (PAAr) was derived and characterized. The resistance to the inhibitor was transmitted from PAAr-mutant to a sensitive strain (L2) by recombination performed by the marker rescue method using DNA fragmented by Hpa-1 restrictase. The resulting recombinant (R-551) was resistant to the inhibitor and had an altered primary structure of DNA.
We have identified three open reading frames (ORFs) in murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV), designated M82, M83, and M84, which likely encode homologs of the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) UL82 and UL83 matrix phosphoproteins. These ORFs, in the HindIII C fragment of MCMV, are colinear with the UL82, UL83, and UL84 ORFs of HCMV. M82 encodes a 598-amino-acid (aa) protein with homology to UL82, M83 encodes an 809-aa protein with homology to UL82 and UL83, and M84 encodes a 587-aa protein with homology to UL83 and UL84. Analysis of transcription by Northern (RNA) blotting indicated that the M82 and M83 ORFs are transcribed as 2.2- and 5-kb mRNAs, respectively, at 24 to 48 h postinfection (p.i.), while M84 is transcribed as a 6.9-kb mRNA only at 8 h p.i. All transcripts appear to terminate at the same position 3' of the M82 ORF. Of the products of the three ORFs, only M83 is strongly recognized by hyperimmune mouse serum. The M83 protein is a virion-associated phosphoprotein with an apparent molecular mass of 125 kDa. In MCMV-infected cells, it is detectable by Western blotting (immunoblotting) only at 48 h p.i. in the absence of phosphonoacetic acid, consistent with late gene expression. The M83 ORF is also expressed at high levels in cells infected by a recombinant vaccinia virus and yields a protein which is serologically cross-reactive and comigrates with the authentic MCMV protein in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
Reactions of some CH-acids with dimethyl dialkylaminoethynephosphonates were studied aiming to develop methods of syntheses of the functionalized organophosphorus compounds. Reactions with malonodinitrile, ethyl cyanoacetate, and benzenesulfonylacetonitrile were shown to proceed effectively in anhydrous acetonitrile in the presence of catalytic amounts of potassium carbonate to form products of CHacids addition at the triple bond followed by prototropic isomerization to give the corresponding β-dialkylamino-β-phosphonomethyl-α-substituted acrylonitriles. In reaction with malonic acid aminoethynephosphonates are hydrolyzed to form phosphonoacetic acid dialkylamides as main products.
The invention relates to a preparation method of trans-4-dimethylaminocrotonic acid and its salt and belongs to the field of organic synthesis. The preparation method comprises the following steps that 1, a compound VI (aniline derivative) and a compound V (diethylphosphonoacetic acid) undergo an aminolysis reaction to produce an intermediate IV, 2, the intermediate IV and a compound III ((dimethylamino)-glyoxyl-diethylacetal) undergo a condensation reaction to produce an intermediate II, and 3, the intermediate II undergoes a hydrolysis reaction to produce a desired compound I. The preparation method are simple and efficient synthesis route, is convenient for operation, is free of use of lower-boiling point dangerous chemical dimethylamine, is economic and environmentally friendly, has a high total yield, realizes good product purity and is suitable for industrial production.
Caffeine is known to inhibit replication of herpes simplex virus (HSV)-l and the therapeutic efficacy of caffeine (Cafon) gel has been shown in a mouse model cutaneously infected with HSV-1. In this study we examined the inhibitory effect of caffeine on infection with HSV-2 and acyclovir-resistant HSV-1 strains, thymidine kinase (TK)-deficient and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant HSV-1 in vitro and in vivo. Caffeine inhibited plaque formation of HSV-2 and acyclovir-resistant HSV-1 strains and their EC50 values ranged from 0.42 to 1.11 mg/ml. Topical treatment with Cafon gel was significantly effective in retarding the development of skin lesions caused by cutaneous infection with HSV-2 and PAA-resistant HSV-1, and in reducing the virus yield of the skin infected with TK-deficient HSV-1. The results suggested that Cafon gel would be useful for the topical treatment of cutaneous infection with HSV-2 and acyclovir-resistant HSV strains.
Monoclonal antibody (Mab) 11D1 specific for HHV-8 showed a predominantly nuclear membrane fluorescence with about 30% of phorbol ester (TPA)-induced HHV-8-carrying BCBL-1 cells and with 2–8% of uninduced cells, but not with other herpes viruses infected cells. This Mab immunoprecipitated a 50-kDa polypeptide from BCBL-1 cells. The synthesis of this polypeptide was reduced but not inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). A 2.3-kb cDNA insert from a cDNA library of TPA-induced BCBL-1 cells was identified by Mab 11D1. Sequence analysis shows that this cDNA is open at the 5′ end and encodes two ORFs of 396AA (5′ end) and 357AA (3′ end). These ORFs are identical to the published HHV-8 ORFs 59 and 58, respectively.In vitrotranscription and translation of the cDNA resulted in the synthesis of a 50-kDa polypeptide and its partial peptide map was identical to that of the 50-kDa polypeptide detected in the TPA induced BCBL-1 cells. Riboprobe made from the cDNA insert hybridized with several viral specific RNAs from BCBL-1 cells. Levels of these RNA species were reduced, but not inhibited by PAA. These characteristics are similar to other herpes viruses genes encoding the lytic cycle associated early–late class accessory proteins that are essential for viral DNA replication. This Mab 11D1 recognizing the HHV-8 lytic cycle associated ORF 59 protein will be highly useful in monitoring the lytic replicative cycle.
Abstract Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) gene expression was examined by RNA blot hybridization using clones representing immediate-early, early, and late genes. An immediate-early protein gene probe hybridized with two transcripts, 3.4 and 5.8 kb, expressed by infected cells in the presence of cycloheximide (CH). During infection of cells without metabolic inhibitors these transcripts were detected as early as 2 hr postinfection (p.i.) and accumulated to 8 hr p.i. The early gene probe, thymidine kinase, hybridized with a 4.3-kb RNA that was detected in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), but not in the presence of CH. The late gene probe, glycoprotein III, (gill) hybridized with a 1.6-kb transcript that was not expressed by infected cells treated with CH and only in very reduced amounts by infected cells treated with PAA. The gill RNA was not detected until 4 hr p.i. in total cell RNA. Transcripts for the bovine actin and β-galactosyl-transferase genes did not decrease in BHV-1-infected cells until 6 hr p.i., coincident with the increase of BHV-1 DNA and RNA synthesis. Consequently, shutoff of host cell transcription by BHV-1 may be different than what has been described for herpes simplex virus.
The effects of phosphonoacetic acid on cell growth, expression of Epstein-Barr virus antigens, and virus production in human and marmoset lymphoblastoid cell lines have been studied. The drug had no significant effect at concentrations up to 100 mug/ml on cell growth or total cell DNA synthesis. Higher doses induced not only a drastic decrease in DNA synthesis and cell grwoth, but also a dramatic cell enlargement. Immunofluorescence studies showed that greater than or equal to 30 mug/ml of phosphonoacetic acid inhibited viral capsid antigen synthesis without affecting the expression of the nuclear antigen or the spontaneous and 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine-induced early antigens. Production of transforming Epstein-Barr virus was also blocked.
The antiviral effects of interferon (IFN) on varicella zoster virus (VZV) and herpes simplex virus (HSV) in vitro were examined. The values for the 50% inhibitory dose (ID50) of IFN-alpha, beta and gamma determined by plaque reduction assay, were 0.813, 0.650 and 13.750 IU/ml, respectively, against VZV and 18.00, 10.38 and 115.0 IU/ml, respectively, against HSV. Thus IFN-alpha and beta were more effective than IFN-gamma against both VZV and HSV and VZV was more sensitive than HSV to the IFNs. Five mutants of VZV which were resistant to acyclovir (ACV), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or bromodeoxyuridine (BUDR) were also sensitive to IFN beta, their average ID50 being 1.31 IU/ml. Analysis of virus-specific proteins by the immunofluorescent technique with various antisera showed that IFN had a significant effect before early protein synthesis.
A limited number of biologically active materials were examined for their relative ability to selectively inhibit the replication of Gross or Rauscher murine leukemia virus (MLV) in Swiss mouse embryo cells by means of the UV-XC plaque-reduction assay. Among the compounds demonstrating significant antiviral activity against Gross MLV in vitro were 1-(4-fluorobenzyloxy) adenosine (FBAR), polyadenylic acid [poly(A)], the carbocyclic analogue of 6-methylthiopurine ribonucleoside (C-MeMPR), 3-(2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazonemethyl)rifamycin SV (AF/DNFI), and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Five compounds that exhibited significant antiviral activity against MLV in vitro were tested for similar activity against Rauscher MLV in vivo. Three of these selected compounds, pyrazofurin (pyrazomycin), ribavirin (Virazole), and 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (ara-A), produced a significant (50%-100%) inhibition of virus-induced splenomegaly development in mice, whereas the other two candidate inhibitors, 3-deazauridine (deazaUR) and rifamycin SV, the other two candidate inhibitors, 3-deazauridine (deazaUR) and rifamycin SV, failed to demonstrate any in vivo activity in this 21-day leukemogenesis assay. The administration of an inhibitor of adenosine deaminase (Co-vidarabine) in combination with ara-A resulted in an enhanced antiviral response in both infected cell cultures and animals. Co-vidarabine also increased the potency of ara-AMP against Gross MLV in vitro, indicating the probable dephosphorylation of the compound to ara-A and its subsequent deamination to ara-H in this system.
African swine fever virus (ASFV) induces the synthesis of a virus-specific DNA polymerase, which is inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid and cytosine arabinoside. In contrast to all other alpha-like DNA polymerases of DNA viruses, ASFV-specific DNA polymerase is resistant to aphidicolin. Concentrations of the drug as high as 160 microM had no effect on virus production or plaquing efficiency. The resistance of ASFV DNA polymerase to aphidicolin was confirmed by analyzing the effect of the drug on viral DNA synthesis. A moderate inhibition of viral DNA synthesis was observed when aphidicolin was added immediately after virus adsorption but normal synthesis occurred, with a peak at 10 hr p.i., when the drug was added at 2 or 4 hr p.i. This suggests that a very early phase of ASFV DNA replication is sensitive to aphidicolin and is probably catalyzed by a different enzyme. An in vitro assay of DNA polymerase activity was used to assay the sensitivity of the virus-specific DNA polymerase to inhibitors. In correspondence to the results observed in vivo, phosphonoacetic acid strongly inhibited the enzyme activity, whereas aphidicolin had no effect. Resistance to aphidicolin was independent of the concentration of dCTP used in the assay. Three independent ASFV mutants resistant to phosphonoacetic acid showed the same resistance to aphidicolin as wild type virus.
The effects of phosphonoacetic acid on cell growth, expression of Epstein-Barr virus antigens, and virus production in human and marmoset lymphoblastoid cell lines have been studied. The drug had no significant effect at concentrations up to 100 jg/ml on cell growth or total cell DNA synthesis. Hi' er doses induced not only a drastic decrease in DNA synthesis and cell growth, but also a dramatic cell enlargement. Immunofluorescence studies showed that >30 jsg/ml of phosphonoacetic acid inhibited viral capsid antigen synthesis without affecting the expression of the nuclear antigen or the spontaneous and 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridineinduced early antigens. Production of transforming EpsteinBarr virus was also blocked. Inhibition of viral capsid antigen expression and of virus production at low doses was reversible. The (human fibroblast) cells (3). PAA inhibits herpes simplex virus replication by interfering with the DNA polymerase activity (4). It has also been found to inhibit the replication of several other herpes viruses, including cytomegalovirus (5), Marek's disease virus (6), and equine abortus virus (7), and a non-herpes virus, vaccinia virus (8). In this paper we present data which show that PAA inhibits the synthesis of Epstein-Barr (EBV) viral capsid antigens (VCA) and of virus itself at concentrations which have no detectable effect on the synthesis of nuclear antigen (EBNA) and early antigens (EA), or on cellular DNA synthesis and cell proliferation. PAA also has no detectable effect on 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine-(IdUrd) or superinfection-induced EA synthesis in the nonproducer Raji cell line.
A characterization of equine infectious anemia virus reverse transcriptase (EIAV RT) and its inhibition by 5'-triphosphate analogs was undertaken to explore the possibility of using EIAV RT as an in vitro model for studying human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). EIAV RT activity was found to be dependent on the bivalent cations Mg++ and Mn++. The optimal pH for enzyme reaction was pH 8.2. EIAV RT preferred a 70 mmol/L concentration of monovalent salts. Phosphonoformic acid (PFA) was an active inhibitor of EIAV RT, but phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) were not. The inhibition of EIAV RT activity by 5'-triphosphates of nucleoside derivatives was in the following decreasing order: FLTTP greater than AZTTP greater than nPrearaUTP greater than nPredUTP = CEdUTP greater than EtdUTP greater than nPrdUTP greater than HMdUTP. nPrearaUTP was a linear competitive and PFA a linear noncompetitive inhibitor of EIAV RT with respect to dTTP. Apparent Kis and Kii were 1.5 and 2.2 mumol/L respectively. The susceptibility pattern of EIAV RT to inhibitors was similar to that of HIV RT.
Abstract In this study, the effects of several additives on the setting behavior and mechanical properties of polymeric calcium phosphate cements were investigated. The cements were derived from a polycarboxylic acid (PCA) and a calcium phosphate cement (CPC) powder that consisted of equimolar amounts of tetracalcium phosphate (TTCP) and dicalcium phosphate (DCPA). Retardation of the setting reaction in the PCA-CPC cements was observed by adding tribasic sodium phosphate and fluorides such as stannous fluoride, zirconium(IV) fluoride and titanium(IV) fluoride. It was found that increasing the concentration of these additives decreased the mechanical strength of the cements. However, improvements in both setting and mechanical properties for the PCA-CPC cements were observed by the combined use of 8% (w/w) stanous fluoride and 10% (w/w) tartaric acid. The mechanical properties of the PCA-CPC cement also were improved by adding calcium acetate, calcium methacrylate, zirconium(IV) sulfate and phosphonoacetic acid.
Summary Treatment of herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2)-infected human embryo lung cells with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) at a concentration of 100 μg/ml did not inhibit the replication of HSV-2 over a 7-day period due to replication of low levels of PAA-resistant virus present in original virus stocks. Dose-response curves demonstrated that a minimum of 200 μg of PAA/ml was required to inhibit HSV-2 over this time interval. At twice the minimum concentration of PAA required, it was possible to induce a period during which infectious virus was un-detectable after reversal of drug treatment. This latent period was longer than that observed previously using cytosine arabinoside, and was extended by increasing the incubation temperature to 40° at the time of drug removal. The authors wish to thank Dr. Stephen St. Jeor for continuous provision of HEL cells.
As mentioned in the Chemical context, there are 57 species in the crystallographic literature containing DABCO or its mono-or diprotonated forms and a carboxylic acid or carboxylate anion. In fact, co-crystals are rare, being around 10% of all structures. Co-crystals are formed with several dicarboxylic acids where the functional groups are separated by long chains of over four carbon atoms (Braga et al., 2003; Moon & Park, 2012) , with phosphonoacetic acid (Bowes et al., 2003) and with isophthalic acid (Marivel et al., 2010) . While the majority of the remaining structures contain species derived from a dicarboxylic acid, there are 13 examples of structures containing species derived from a mono-carboxylic acid which are more directly suitable for comparison with (1) and (2). Further, in each case the original carboxylic acid was connected to an aromatic ring. Of the sub-set of 13 structures, Unit-cell contents shown in projection down the a axis for (1). The O-HÁ Á ÁO, O-HÁ Á ÁN and C-HÁ Á ÁO hydrogen bonds are shown as orange, blue and green dashed lines, respectively (see Table 1 for details).
The genome of Bacillus subtilis phage o29 consists of a linear, double-stranded DNA 19,285 bp long with a 6-bp-long inverted terminal repeat (AAAGTA; 32, 114) and a terminal protein (TP) covalently linked at the 5' ends. Viral genes 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 17 are required for o29 DNA replication. o29 DNA polymerase is inhibited by drugs that are known inhibitors of eukaryotic DNA polymerase α such as aphidicolin, phosphonoacetic acid, and the nucleotide analogs butyl-anilino dATP (BuAdATP) and butyl-phenyl dGTP (BuPdGTP). The amino acid sequence RGD, which is found in cell adhesion proteins, is present at positions 256 to 258 in the o29 and M2 TPs. Activation of the initiation of o29 DNA replication by p6 requires not only formation of the complex but also its correct positioning relative to the o29 DNA ends, suggesting that other proteins involved in the initiation of o29 DNA replication (TP and/or DNA polymerase) recognize p6 at a precise position. Transcription of the o29 genome takes place in two stages. At the beginning of the infection only the genes involved in DNA replication and transcription regulation are expressed. Genes coding for structural components of the phage particle and for proteins involved in morphogenesis and cell lysis are expressed later on in infection.
A putative herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) growth factor (HSGF-2) was detected in a crude extract from virus infected mouse embryo cells. This factor, similar to previously described pseudorabies virus (PRV) associated growth factor (PRGF) was shown to have ability to morphologically transform non-transformed cells and to repress the transformed phenotype of transformed cells. Both activities could be neutralized with two, out of seven monoclonal antibodies directed against glycoprotein B of HSV-2. Both PRGF and HSGF-2 were detected in human embryo lung cells latently infected with PRV or HSV-2 either at 41 degrees C, or in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid. Human alpha-2 interferon, when present in medium of latently infected cells enhanced the production of both HSGF and PRGF. On the contrary, when latently infected cells were treated with 5-azacytidine the synthesis of both PRGF and HSGF-2 was completely blocked and the virus reactivated from latency replicated to higher titers than in non-treated cells. The role of PRGF and HSGF-2 in the establishment, maintenance and reactivation of latency, as well as in cellular transformation is discussed.
HSV DNA replication takes place in globular nuclear structures (12, 41) that have been called replication compartments (38) . The localization of the HSV ICP8 single-stranded DNAbinding protein was originally used to define these structures (38). If DNA replication is blocked by the viral Pol inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), hydroxyurea, or a Pol defect, ICP8 localizes to nuclear punctate structures called prereplicative sites (12, 38) . During the course of infection, ICP8 is initially localized (2 to 3 h postinfection) to a few punctate structures similar to prereplicative sites (12). These structures become larger in size as viral replication begins, and by 3 to 4 h, globular replication compartments, often appearing to be clusters of prereplicative sites, start to form. At later times, the replication compartments nearly fill the nuclei of some cells. In contrast, if viral DNA replication is inhibited, the punctate structures remain the same size and dispersed as the infection progresses, but their number increases. By confocal microscopy, prereplicative sites and replication compartments appear to extend through a large portion of the nucleus along an axis perpendicular to the culture substrate (13). By both conventional and confocal microscopy, replication compartments appear to be clusters of prereplicative sites (13). Thus, several types of data suggest that structures similar or equivalent to prereplicative sites are precursors of replication compartments.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) 100 mM stock solution was prepared in SFM and adjusted to pH 7.0 with 1 N NaOH. The stock was diluted to 400 μM in DMEM-5% FBS and added to the cells after removing inocula and washing with PBS. HSV-1 transcriptional competence PLOS Pathogens | https://doi.org/10.Resources: Judith Breuer. Software: Daniel P. Depledge. Supervision: Luis M. Schang. Validation: MiYao Hu, Daniel P. Depledge, Luis M. Schang. Visualization: MiYao Hu, Daniel P. Depledge, Luis M. Schang.
NONOate donors have previously been presented at the surface of metallic implants using physisorption and synthetic polymeric coating methods [11, 12, 23] . Direct modification of a metallic surface to release NO was reported by Gallo and Mani [23] . Cobalt-chromium stents were modified with phosphonoacetic acid, followed by diethylenetriame (DETA)/NONOate. Although these stents were not tested against bacterial cultures, the modified metal surface released micromolar (µM) amounts of NO in vitro [23] . Nablo and coworkers generated a stainless steel implant coated with a silica sol-gel containing a NONOate donor that released picomole amounts of NO over 24 h, while reducing Staphylococcal bacterial adhesion onto the coated surface [12] . Holt et al. coated the surface of commercially-pure titanium fixation pins utilizing a silica xerogel containing a NONOate functionality. Like Nablo and coworkers, these titanium pins released similar amounts of NO and reduced bacterial adhesion 48 days post implantation in a mouse model [11, 12] . Although these polymeric coatings seem promising, the long-term cytotoxicity of these NONOate silica gel coatings were not discussed, and could impose limitations on in vivo applications [11, 12] .
Synthesis of varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-induced polypeptide was examined at intervals after infection by immunoprecipitation, SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and fluorography. Human embryonic lung (HEL) cells were inoculated with VZV-infected cells at a ratio of about 1 infected cell to 5 uninfected cells and pulse-labelled with 35S-methionine or 14C-glucosamine. Under this experimental condition, virus-induced protein and glycoprotein began to appear 4 to 6 and 18 to 20 h after infection, respectively, and a capsid protein (MW 145,000) was prominent 18 h after injection. The synthesis of these proteins reached maxima at 46 to 48 h after infection. In all, 34 polypeptides and 10 to 13 glycoproteins with molecular weight of 145,000 to 22,000 and 115,000 to 38,000, respectively, were detected. A few polypeptides (MW 130,000, 95,000, 72,000) were detected in infected cells treated with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) at an early stage of infection. Proteins and glycoproteins of virion of VZV were analyzed by immunoprecipitation with antisera against partially purified virion of VZV. At least 12 polypeptides with MW of 145,000 to 35,000 and 7 glycoproteins (MW 105,000, 90,000, 84,000, 72,000, 70,000, 60,000 and 56,000) were identified. A polypeptide with a molecular weight of 145,000 was considered to be the major capsid protein.
Abstract Recent studies in aqueous solution on the coordinating ability of beryllium(II) with ligands containing phosphonate groups show that these ligands form more stable complexes than ligands with carboxylate groups. Phosphonoacetic acid (H 3 pa) forms beryllium(II) complexes containing six-membered chelate rings. For comparison purposes in this work the reactions in aqueous solution between beryllium(II) and 3-phosphonopropionic acid (H 3 pp), which should give rise to seven-membered chelate complexes, have been studied using both potentiometry and multinuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The protonation constants of the 3-phosphonopropionate ligand (pp 3− ) were determined at 298 K at 0.5 mol dm −3 ionic strength made up with NaClO 4 and [(CH 3 ) 4 N]Cl. Five phosphonopropionate complexes Be(Hpp), Be(pp) − , Be(OH)(pp) 2− , Be(Hpp) 2 2− and Be 3 (OH) 3 (pp) have been identified as the major complexes species present at the equilibrium. The corresponding formation constants were determined at 298 K at 0.5 mol dm −3 ionic strength (NaClO 4 and [(CH 3 ) 4 N]Cl). Beryllium(II) phosphonoacetate complexes, containing six-membered chelate rings, are more stable than the corresponding phosphonopropionate complexes, as expected.
The therapeutic effectiveness of adenine arabinoside 5'-monophosphate (ara-AMP), adenine arabinoside (ara-A), and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was compared in three experimental Herpesvirus hominis type 2 infections of mice. In animals inoculated with H. hominis by the intracerebral or intraperitoneal route, both ara-AMP and ara-A were highly effective in reducing mortality even when treatment was begun 48 to 96 h after viral inoculation. ara-AMP was the most effective in both models in that treatment could be initiated 24 to 48 h later in the course of infection than with ara-A and still confer significant protection. In mice inoculated intraperitoneally, protection due to ara-AMP therapy was associated with reduced replication of virus in visceral organs and complete inhibition of transmission of virus to the brain. PAA treatment of mice inoculated intraperitoneally was effective in reducing mortality only if initiated shortly after infection. Treatment with PAA did not reduce mortality of mice inoculated intracerebrally but did prolong the mean day of death. When mice were inoculated intranasally with H. hominis, none of the three drugs altered final mortality; however, treatment with ara-AMP did prolong the mean day of death. Treatment with ara-AMP effectively reduced viral replication in the lung and liver in this model infection, but failed to prevent transmission of virus through the trigeminal nerves from the nasopharynx to the brain.
In water, metallic palladium on carbon was found to catalyze the deep oxidation of organophosphorus and organosulfur compounds by dioxygen at 90°C in the presence of carbon monoxide. This system presents the first examples of catalytic cleavage of phosphorus-carbon bonds. Starting with trimethylphosphine oxide, the phosphorus-containing products formed by sequential P-C cleavage were dimethylphosphinic acid, methylphosphonic acid, and phosphoric acid. A similar reaction sequence was also observed for triethylphosphine oxide, except that products formed by partial oxidation of the ethyl groups, such as phosphonoacetic acid, were also seen as intermediates. The deep oxidation of dimethyl and diethyl sulfides proceeded through the intermediacy of the corresponding sulfoxides. For the methyl derivatives, the ease of oxidation decreased in the order: (CH3)2S>(CH3)2S O>(CH3)2SO2 and is consistent with the system acting as an electrophilic oxidant.
Angiogenic Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) skin lesions found in both AIDS and non-AIDS patients are universally associated with infection by the presumed causative agent, known as KS-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) or human herpesvirus 8. KSHV genomes expressing latent state virus-encoded mRNAs and the LANA1 (latent nuclear antigen 1) protein are consistently present in spindle-like tumor cells that are thought to be of endothelial cell origin. Although the KSHV lytic cycle can be induced in rare latently infected primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) cell lines, the ability to transmit or assay infectious KSHV has so far eluded investigators. Here, we demonstrate that infection with supernatant virions derived from three different tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate-induced PEL cell lines can induce cultured primary human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (DMVEC) to form colonies of proliferating latently infected spindle-shaped cells, all of which express the KSHV-encoded LANA1 protein. Although their initial infectivity varied widely (JSC1 > > BC3 > BCP1), virions from all three cell lines produced distinctive spindle cell colonies and plaques without affecting the contact-inhibited cobblestone-like phenotype of adjacent uninfected DMVEC. Each infected culture could also be expanded into a completely spindloid persistently infected culture displaying aggregated swirls of spindle cells resembling those in KS lesions. Formation of new colonies and plaques was inhibited in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid or gangciclovir, but these antiherpesvirus agents had little effect on the propagation of already latently infected spindloid cultures. In persistently infected secondary cultures, patches of up to 10% of the spindloid cells constitutively expressed several early viral lytic cycle proteins, and 1 to 2% of the cells also formed typical herpesvirus DNA replication compartments, displayed cytopathic rounding effects, and expressed late viral antigens. We conclude that de novo KSHV infection induces a spindle cell conversion phenotype in primary DMVEC cultures that is directly associated with latent state expression of the LANA1 protein. However, these cultures also spontaneously reactivate to produce an unusual combination of both latent and productive but slow lytic cycle infection. The formation of spindle cell colonies and plaques in DMVEC cultures provides for the first time a quantitative assay for directly measuring the infectivity of KSHV virion preparations.
Analysis of viral DNA replication. HUVEC were seeded in T-25 flasks, maintained to 80 % confluency, and inoculated with cell-free virus stocks at 10$ TCID &! per 10' HUVEC. After 2 h, incubation was continued at 37 mC in fresh ECBM or ECBM plus 400 µg\ml phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). After 4 days, the monolayers were washed twice with PBS, treated with trypsin, and collected by centrifugation. The cell pellets were resuspended in 0n5 ml PBS. In a duplicate culture, the level of HHV-6A infection was determined by indirect IF. Then 6i10$ infected HUVEC in a series of threefold dilutions, along with 6i10$ HHV-6A-infected JJhan cells in a series of threefold dilutions, were spotted onto a GeneScreen Plus membrane using a Minifold I filtration apparatus (Schleicher & Schuell) . Uninfected HUVEC and JJhan cultures, at the appropriate cell concentrations, were included as negative controls. The membrane was treated twice with 1n5 M NaCl plus 0n5 M NaOH, twice with 1 M Tris-HCl pH 7n5 plus 1n5 M NaCl, and probed with a $#P-labelled HHV-6 fragment encoding the polymerase accessory protein.
The physical map limits of DNA sequences within the DNA polymerase locus of herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 that define resistance mutations to adenine arabinoside (ara-A) and E-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (BVDU) were determined. Intertypic recombinants between HSV types 1 and 2, generated by marker rescue of temperature-sensitive mutations, had genome structures determined by restriction endonuclease analysis and were used to show that the resistance mutation for ara-Ar-1 is closely linked to the resistance mutations for phosphonoacetic acid (paar-1) and acycloguanosine (acvr-1) within a region of 2.6 kilobase pairs (kbp) in the HSV DNA polymerase locus. The resistance mutation for bvdur-1 is defined by a 2.9-kbp region that overlaps with the region defining resistance to the other three drugs but that is transferred separately. The DNA polymerase locus also contains a 2.2-kbp region that maps adjacent to and to the left of the region defining the bvdur-1 mutation which can be transferred separately and defines a region determining the HSV-1-specific sensitivity to BVDU in a manner analogous to that to acyclovir.
Glycoprotein 14 (gp14) of equine herpesvirus type 1 (EHV-1), the homolog of herpes simplex virus (HSV) glycoprotein B (gB), was investigated employing a panel of monoclonal antibodies to ascertain the regulatory class, rate of synthesis, and type of glycosylation of this polypeptide. Application of immunoprecipitation, Western blot, and SDS-PAGE analysis in conjunction with the use of metabolic inhibitors (cycloheximide, antinomycin D, phosphonoacetic acid, tunicamycin, and monensin), and time-course and pulse-chase experiments revealed the following information: (1) Three gp14-related polypeptides with molecular weights of 138 kilodaltons (K), 77-75K, and 55-53K are present in EHV-1-infected cell extracts. (2) All three species are synthesized in the presence of the DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid although their synthesis is enhanced by DNA replication, indicative of a beta-gamma class molecule. (3) The 138K species is synthesized first as a precursor of the smaller species of gp14, the 77-75K and 55-53K forms. (4) Use of glycosylation inhibitors and digestion of immunoprecipitated gp14 with endoglycosidases indicate that the primary translation product is a 118K molecule which is cotranslationally glycosylated to the 138K form by the addition of high mannose oligosaccharides. (5) The 77-75K species contains both high mannose and hybrid oligosaccharides while the 55-53K form of gp14 contains some complex oligosaccharides. (6) In the absence of a reducing agent, the 138K polypeptide and a large 145K species are observed in both infected cell extracts and purified virions. Thus, EHV-1 gp14 appears to be synthesized as a large precursor molecule of 138K and is proteolytically cleaved to two smaller forms, 77-75K and 55-53K, which are linked by a disulfide bond(s) to form a 145K complex. This model of gp14 synthesis and maturation is similar to those proposed for a number of HSV gB equivalents found in the Alphaherpesvirnae.
In situ generated trimethylsilyl ::: diethylphosphonoacetate from diethyl phosphonoacetic acid can be ::: acylated with carboxylic acid chlorides in the presence of magnesium ::: chloride to prepare a variety of β-keto phosphonates. This ::: synthetic method is suitable for the preparation of β-keto ::: phosphonates in the laboratory and also for large-scale production.
Human (h) interleukin-10 (IL-10) exhibits a strong DNA and amino acid sequence homology to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) BCRF1 genome, viral (v) IL-10. We analyzed the production of IL-10 for EBV activation in B-cell lines. The latent EBV in Akata cells was activated by the cross-linking of surface immunoglobulin G (IgG) with anti-human IgG. The levels of IL-10(h+v) and vIL-10 in the culture fluids were measured by a specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). IL-10(h+v) was detected at the same time for EBV immediate early gene BZLF1 product ZEBRA and early gene BMRF1 product EA-D. This was more than 4 hours prior to the appearance of vIL-10, and late gene products gp 350/220 and viral capsid antigen. The induction of hIL-10 and vIL-10 mRNAs were detected in anti-IgG-treated Akata cells by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The induction of IL-10(h+v) and vIL-10 was inhibited with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, herbimycin, or with an inhibitor of herpesvirus DNA polymerase, phosphonoacetic acid, or acyclovir. IL-10(h+v) and vIL-10 were also detected in the supernatants of Akata and Daudi but not Ramos cells infected with P3HR-1 EBV. These results show the IL-10 induction on EBV activation in EBV-carrying B-cell lines.
Summary ::: A series of herpes simplex virus isolates were recovered from a bone marrow transplant patient who received prolonged acyclovir therapy for indolent herpes simplex mouth and throat ulceration. Of 14 isolates received 10 were resistant to acyclovir and partially resistant to phosphonoacetic acid. Biochemical characterization revealed that resistance was due to an alteration in the virus DNA polymerase. DNA sequence analysis of the polymerase gene of a plaque-purified resistant virus isolate revealed a single nucleotide change when compared with the sequence of the gene of a plaque-purified sensitive isolate. This single base change resulted in a predicted amino acid substitution of Gly to Ser at residue number 841, a putative functional region of the polymerase.
The human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is known to interact intimately with cells of the immune system. Here we report that HHV-6 is a potent inducer of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) in cultures of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In contradistinction, HHV-6 has no effect on IL-6 synthesis. Maximal IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha gene transcription, as detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification analysis, is observed at 12 and 6 h postinfection, respectively. Release of IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha into the culture supernatants peaked at 24 h and gradually decreased with time. Heat-inactivated virus was unable to stimulate IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha syntheses, whereas UV-irradiated virus retained the full monokine-inducing potential of the native particle. Preincubation of viral preparation with neutralizing anti-HHV-6 antibody resulted in the abrogation of this cytokine-inducing effect, whereas treatment of cells with phosphonoacetic acid (an inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase activity) had no effect on the ability of the virus to stimulate monokine release. These results indicate that HHV-6 can exert a strong immunomodulatory effect by stimulating the cells of myeloid lineage to produce these cytokines.
Abstract The kinetic and regulatory properties of aspartate carbamoyltransferase (ACTase) of the human pathogen Helicobacter pylori were studied in situ in cell-free extracts. The presence of enzyme activity was established by identifying the end product as carbamoylaspartate using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Activity was measured in all strains studied, including recent clinical isolates. Substrate saturation curves determined employing radioactive tracer analysis or a microtiter colorimetric assay were hyperbolic for both carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate, and there was no evidence for substrate inhibition at higher concentrations of either substrate. The apparent K m were 0.6 and 11.6 m m for carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate, respectively. Optimal pH and temperature were determined as 8.0 and 45°C. Activity was observed with the l - but not the d -isomer of aspartate. Succinate and maleate inhibited enzyme activity competitively with respect to aspartate. The carbamoyl phosphate analogues acetyl phosphate and phosphonoacetic acid inhibited activity in a competitive manner with respect to carbamoyl phosphate. With limiting carbamoyl phosphate purine and pyrimidine nucleotides, tripolyphosphate, pyrophosphate, and orthophosphate inhibited competitively at millimolar concentrations. Ribose and ribose 5-phosphate at 10 m m concentration showed 20 and 35% inhibition of enzyme activity, respectively. N -Phosphonoacetyl- l -aspartate (PALA) was the most potent inhibitor studied, with 50% inhibition of enzyme activity observed at 0.1 μ m concentration. Inhibition by PALA was competitive with carbamoyl phosphate ( K i = 0.245 μ m ) and noncompetitive with aspartate. The kinetic and regulatory data on the activity of the H. pylori enzyme suggest it is a Class A ACTase, but with some interesting characteristics distinct from this class.
A series of herpes simplex virus isolates were recovered from a bone marrow transplant patient who received prolonged acyclovir therapy for indolent herpes simplex mouth and throat ulceration. Of 14 isolates received 10 were resistant to acyclovir and partially resistant to phosphonoacetic acid. Biochemical characterization revealed that resistance was due to an alteration in the virus DNA polymerase. DNA sequence analysis of the polymerase gene of a plaque-purified resistant virus isolate revealed a single nucleotide change when compared with the sequence of the gene of a plaque-purified sensitive isolate. This single base change resulted in a predicted amino acid substitution of Gly to Ser at residue number 841, a putative functional region of the polymerase.
The human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is known to interact intimately with cells of the immune system. Here we report that HHV-6 is a potent inducer of interleukin-l (IL-113) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) in cultures of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In contradistinction, HHV-6 has no effect on IL-6 synthesis. Maximal IL-1"3 and TNF-oa gene transcription, as detected by polymerase chain reaction amplification analysis, is observed at 12 and 6 h postinfection, respectively. Release of IL-1" and TNF-ot into the culture supernatants peaked at 24 h and gradually decreased with time. Heat-inactivated virus was unable to stimulate IL-1,8 and TNF-oa syntheses, whereas UV-irradiated virus retained the full monokine-inducing potential of the native particle. Preincubation of viral preparation with neutralizing anti-HHV-6 antibody resulted in the abrogation of this cytokine-inducing effect, whereas treatment of cells with phosphonoacetic acid (an inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase activity) had no effect on the ability of the virus to stimulate monokine release. These results indicate that HHV-6 can exert a strong immunomodulatory effect by stimulating the cells of myeloid lineage to produce these cytokines.
During bone resorption, a large amount of inorganic phosphate (Pi) is generated within the osteoclast hemivacuole. The mechanisms involved in the disposal of this Pi are not clear. In the present study, we investigated the efflux of Pi from osteoclast-like cells. Pi efflux was activated by acidic conditions in osteoclast-like cells derived by the treatment of RAW264.7 cells with receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand. Acid-induced Pi influx was not observed in renal proximal tubule-like opossum kidney cells, osteoblast-like MC3T3-E1 cells, or untreated RAW264.7 cells. Furthermore, Pi efflux was stimulated by extracellular Pi and several Pi analogs [phosphonoformic acid (PFA), phosphonoacetic acid, arsenate, and pyrophosphate]. Pi efflux was time dependent, with 50% released into the medium after 10 min. The efflux of Pi was increased by various inhibitors that block Pi uptake, and extracellular Pi did not affect the transport of [14C]PFA into the osteoclast-like cells. Preloading of cells with Pi ...
We examined the effect of phosphonoformic acid (PFA) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) upon Na+-Pi cotransport in brush-border membrane (BBM) from small gut of rat. Both PFA and PAA inhibited the Na+ gradient-dependent uptake of 32Pi by BBM vesicles (BBMV) prepared from intestinal mucosa but had no effect on Na+-dependent uptakes of D-[3H]glucose, L-[3H]proline, or [14C]succinate. The uptake in the absence of Na+ gradient, or uptake at equilibrium period (180 min), was not affected by PFA or by PAA. A chemical analogue of PFA and PAA, phosphonopropionic acid, had only a minor inhibitory effect and phenylphosphonic acid was inactive. Neither PFA nor PAA influenced the activity of rat intestinal BBM alkaline phosphatase. The BBMV from rat jejunum had a much higher capacity for Na+ gradient-dependent uptake of 32Pi than BBMV from duodenum or ileum. The inhibition of BBMV 32Pi transport across rat jejunum by PFA is competitive. We suggest that PFA and PAA are specific inhibitors of Na+ gradient-dependent uptake of Pi by BBMV from small intestinal mucosa and that they could serve as useful experimental tools for the studies of intestinal Na+-Pi cotransport.
Abstract The complexes formed by beryllium(II) with ligands derived from phosphonoacetic acid (H 3 pa) and methylenediphosphonic acid (H 4 mdp) have been investigated in aqueous solution using both potentiometric and multinuclear magnetic resonance measurements. The protonation constants of the two ligands were determined at 298 K at ionic strength 0.5 mol dm −3 made up with NaClO 4 and [(CH 3 ) 4 N]Cl. Seven phosphonoacetate complexes [Be(pa)] − , [Be(pa) 2 ] 4− , [Be(Hpa)], [Be(Hpa)(pa)] 3− , [Be(Hpa) 2 ] 2− , [Be 3 (OH) 3 (pa)] and [Be 3 (OH) 3 (pa) 3 ] 6− and seven methylenediphosphonate complexes, [Be(mdp)] 2− , [Be(mdp) 2 ] 6− , [Be(Hmdp)] − , [Be(H 2 mdp)], [Be(Hmdp)(mdp)] 5− , [Be(Hmdp) 2 ] 4− and [Be(H 2 mdp)] 2− , have been assumed to be present as major complex species. The corresponding formation constants were determined at 25°C at ionic strength 0.5 mol dm −3 (NaClO 4 ). In general, mdp complexes are more stable than the pa complexes having comparable stoichiometry. Phosphonate is able to displace water from [Be(H 2 O) 4 ] 2+ without the assistance of a chelate effect, even at very low pH values. The complexes [BeL 2 ] n − ,(L = pa, n = 4; L = mdp, n = 6), are the most predominant species at physiological pH values; the mdp derivative is more stable than the pa one which, in turn, is much more stable than the corresponding malonate complex. The complex K 2 [Be(H 2 mdp) 2 ]·2H 2 O was isolated in the solid state from reaction of Be(OH) 2 with H 4 mdp and KOH, in aqueous solution, at pH 2.60 and its composition has been confirmed through ESMS spectra.
Abstract Methods have been developed for rapid isolation and genetic analysis of vaccinia virus mutants. These methods include: (1) monitoring mutagenesis by measuring conversion of wild-type, phosphonoacetic acid-sensitive virus to phosphonoacetic acid-resistant virus, (2) screening for mutants by plaque enlargement, and (3) a qualitative spot test for complementation. Twenty-six temperature-sensitive mutants of vaccinia virus have been isolated. All have reversion indices of 10−4 or less. One-step growth experiments have been done at 40° and 31° with all the mutants and in all cases the virus yield at 40° is less than 8% of the yield observed at 31°. Complementation analysis has been completed on all 26 mutants, showing that these mutants together comprise 16 complementation groups. Twenty-four of the mutants have been analyzed for their ability to synthesize viral DNA at the nonpermissive temperature. The results show that 3 of the 24 have a DNA-negative phenotype. These three mutants fall into two complementation groups. Twenty-four of the mutants have been analyzed for their ability to synthesize early and late viral proteins at the nonpermissive temperature. From this analysis, four phenotypes appear: (1) normal, (2) a phenotype associated with DNA-negative mutants characterized by prolonged synthesis of early proteins and the absence of late protein synthesis, (3) weak or slow late protein synthesis, (4) abortive late protein synthesis.
Abstract ::: Mutants of the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) that were 6- to 13-fold more resistant to phosphonoacetic acid than the wild-type HCMV (Towne) were isolated. Extracts from mycoplasma-free, mutant-infected cells had phosphonoacetate-resistant DNA polymerase activity in vitro. This strongly suggests that the selected mutations are in the HCMV DNA polymerase genes of these viruses.
Abstract The antiviral drug, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), forms stable complexes with Mg 2+ , Ca 2+ , Cu 2+ and Zn 2+ . Stability constants of these complexes were determined in aqueous solution (0.15 M in KNO 3 , 37°) by potentiometric titration. Mixed ligand complex formation of Cu 2+ and Zn 2+ with PAA and glycinate ion, and with PAA and histidinate ion, was studied. In a theoretical model for blood plasma, PAA affects the distribution of Mg 2+ and, to a lesser extent, Ca 2+ .
Two different DNA polymerases have been purified and characterized from human platelets. In the mitochondrial fraction a unique activity of the polymerase γ type has been found. The same enzyme is found in the extramitochondrial supernatant. A second DNA polymerase, called ‘cytoplasmic’ DNA polymerase has been found in the 10000 ×g supernatant of human platelets. ::: ::: ::: ::: The following properties of the latter DNA polymerase from human platelets are identical to those of DNA polymerase α from normal cells: DEAE-cellulose and phosphocellulose chromatography, size, thermal stability, phosphonoacetic acid and ethidium bromide inhibition. However, some of its properties, like high resistance to N-ethylmaleimide and the lack of DNA polymerization using synthetic RNA primers, are those of DNA polymerase β.
Infection of human MRC-5 cells and mouse NIH-3T3 cells with a murine gamma-herpesvirus (MuHV-4 strain 68; MHV-68) photoinactivated by visible light in the presence of methylene blue (MB) resulted in nonproductive infection and the appearance of morphologically transformed cells. Two stably transformed cell lines were derived from both of these cell types and were confirmed to contain both viral DNA and antigen. Next, a quiescent MHV-68 infection in MRC-5 and NIH-3T3 cells was established after cultivation at 41°C in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid. Following the exposure of quiescently infected cells to visible light for 120 s (5 times daily for 6 days) in the presence of MB, both MRC-5 and NIH-3T3 cells were observed to acquire transformed phenotypes. The cytopathic effect was observed in cells after 4-5 passages, after which the cells degenerated. However, when human interferon (IFN)-α and mouse IFN-β were added to the media of quiescently infected MRC-5 and NIH-3T3 cells during the photoinactivating procedure, 2 stable transformed cell lines containing both viral DNA and the antigen were obtained and resembled those attained following nonproductive infection with photoinactivated virus.
Seven new metal phosphonoacetates, namely, [Zn7(OH)2(ppat)4(H2O)2] (1), H3O[Zn(ppat)] (2), [Zn3(4,4‘-bpy)(ppat)2] (3), H2dmpz0.5[Zn(ppat)]·H2O (4), (H3O)2[Co3(OH)2(ppat)2] (5), H24,4‘-bpy[VIV2O2(ppat)2] (6), and [FeIII(ppat)(H2O)] (7) (H3ppat = phosphonoacetic acid, 4,4‘-bpy = 4,4‘-bipyridine, dmpz = N,N‘-dimethylpiperazine) were hydrothermally synthesized by the in situ hydrolysis of triethyl phosphonoacetate route. X-ray crystallography reveals that 1 shows a two-dimensional layered structure containing octahedral, tetrahedral, and trigonal bipyramidal Zn sites and an unprecedented inorganic Zn−O ribbon; 2 has a three-dimensional framework with one-dimensional dumbbell-shaped channels encapsulating protonated water molecules; 3 is a neutral three-dimensional framework constructed by [Zn(4,4‘-bpy)]n2n+ chains and [Zn(ppat)]nn- layers, two types of structural motifs; 4 shows a three-dimensional hydrogen bond network constructed by [Zn(ppat)]- anionic layers and N,N‘-dimethylpiperazinium cations; 5 is a la...
Infection of human MRC-5 cells and mouse NIH-3T3 cells with a murine gamma-herpesvirus (MuHV-4 strain 68; MHV-68) photoinactivated by visible light in the presence of methylene blue (MB) resulted in nonproductive infection and the appearance of morphologically transformed cells. Two stably transformed cell lines were derived from both of these cell types and were confirmed to contain both viral DNA and antigen. Next, a quiescent MHV-68 infection in MRC-5 and NIH-3T3 cells was established after cultivation at 41 ° C in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid. Following the exposure of quiescently infected cells to visible light for 120 s (5 times daily for 6 days) in the presence of MB, both MRC-5 and NIH-3T3 cells were observed to acquire transformed phenotypes. The cytopathic effect was observed in cells after 4-5 passages, after which the cells degenerated. However, when human interferon (IFN)-α and mouse IFN-β were added to the media of quiescently infected MRC-5 and NIH-3T3 cells during the photoinactivating procedure, 2 stable transformed cell lines
Abstract Pyrophosphate-dependent phosphofructokinase (PP i -PFK) was identified previously in Toxoplasma gondii as the only kinase that phosphorylates fructose-6-P to fructose-1,6-bisP. Since such an enzyme is not present in mammals, it was considered to be a good target for prospective selective inhibitors of the parasite. We have examined the effects of several phosphonic acid derivatives, analogs of pyrophosphate, on PP i -PFK activity, as well as on the replication of T. gondii in human foreskin fibroblast (HFF) cells. The most active compound in inhibiting PP i -PFK was tetrasodium carbonyldiphosphonate. Several bisphosphonates and related arylhydrazones showed inhibition of the enzyme, but with higher IC 50 values. Although several phosphonoacetic acid derivatives also inhibited PP i -PFK, as a group they were less potent than the bisphosphonate derivatives. Comparison among the structures of various inhibitors and their effects against PP i -PFK indicates that a carbonyl (CO) or imino (CN) group between two phosphoryl moieties is associated with more potent enzyme inhibition. Tetrasodium carbonyldiphosphonate did not show a significant effect against replication of T. gondii cells, probably because, as a charged molecule, it could not cross the cell membrane to reach the intracellular parasite. Tetraisopropyl carbonyldiphosphonate 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazone showed some selective inhibitory effect against replication of the parasite in the HFF cells and protected the mammalian cells from damage by T. gondii . The results indicate that carbonyldiphosphonic acid is a good prototype: compound that is amenable to chemical manipulation, which, in turn, may optimize selective inhibition of T. gondii PP i -PFK and increase accessibility to the intracellular parasite.
Cyclic phosphonic acid analogues of the endogenous amino acids ::: L-aspartic acid and L -glutamic acid have played a major role in the ::: characterisation of excitatory amino acid receptors in the central nervous ::: system. The aim of the first section of this work is to describe the development ::: of a synthetic route that gives access to a novel series of compounds, ::: 3-substituted-cyclobutanephosphonic acids. The synthesis of a valuable ::: intermediate diethyl3-oxocyclobutanephosphonate is described. Elaboration ::: of the ketone functionality of this compound provides allows the synthesis of a ::: number of previously inaccessible 3-substituted-cyclobutanephosphonates, ::: including E- and Z-3-amino-3-carboxy-cyclobutanephosphonic acid, 3-aminocyclobutanephosphonic ::: acid and the four stereoisomers of 3-(amino-carboxymethyl)- ::: cyclobutanephosphonic acid. Enzymatic hydrolysis of the ::: phenyl acetyl derivative of diethyl 3-(amino-cyanomethyl)- ::: cyclobutanephosphonate by penicillinacylase allowed the preparation of ::: 3-(amino-carboxy-methyl)-cyc1obutane-phosphonic acid with high ::: enantiomeric purity. ::: The antiviral activity of phosphonoacetic acid (P AA) has long been ::: recognised. However, a number of problems are associated with the ::: administration of this compound as an antiviral, these include high toxicity to ::: the hosts cells, poor uptake in to cells and absorbtion by teeth and bones. One ::: approach to solving some of these problems may be to make the compounds ::: more lipophilic by increasing the number of carbon atoms in the molecule. The ::: synthesis of a number of cyclic analogues of P AA and the related ::: bisphosphonic acids is described. These compounds are prepared by phase ::: transfer catalysed alkylation of trialkyl phosphonoacetate and tetra alkyl ::: methylenebisphosphonate. The antiviral activity of these compounds against ::: Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSVl) was investigated. ::: A series of chiral at sulfur, a-phosphoryl sulfoxides and ~-hydroxy sulfoxides ::: were prepared. These compounds were investigated for their ability to ::: enantioselectively catalyse the reaction between diethylzinc and ::: benzaldehyde. Although this reaction was catalysed by all of these ::: compounds, this action was not accompanied by enantioselectivity. ::: Comparison of our results with those obtained for ~-hydroxy sulfoximides ::: enabled this lack of enantioselectivity to be explained by the analysis of the ::: proposed transition state complexes .
Orotate phosphoribosyltransferases from Plasmodium falciparum and human sources (PfOPRT and HsOPRT) use orotidine as a slow substrate in the pyrophosphorolysis reaction. With orotidine, intrinsic kinetic isotope effects (KIEs) can be measured for pyrophosphorolysis, providing the first use of pyrophosphate (PPi) in solving an enzymatic transition state. Transition-state structures of PfOPRT and HsOPRT were solved through quantum chemical matching of computed and experimental intrinsic KIEs and can be compared to transition states solved with pyrophosphate analogues as slow substrates. PfOPRT and HsOPRT are characterized by late transition states with fully dissociated orotate, well-developed ribocations, and weakly bonded PPi nucleophiles. The leaving orotates are 2.8 A distant from the anomeric carbons at the transition states. Weak participation of the PPi nucleophiles gives C1'-O(PPi) bond distances of approximately 2.3 A. These transition states are characterized by C2'-endo ribosyl pucker, based on the beta-secondary [2'-(3)H] KIEs. The geometry at the 5'-region is similar for both enzymes, with C3'-C4'-C5'-O5' dihedral angles near -170 degrees . These novel phosphoribosyltransferase transition states are similar to but occur earlier in the reaction coordinate than those previously determined with orotidine 5'-monophosphate and phosphonoacetic acid as substrates. The similarity between the transition states with different substrate analogues supports similar transition state structures imposed by PfOPRT and HsOPRT even with distinct reactants. We propose that the transition state similarity with different nucleophiles is determined, in part, by the geometric constraints imposed by the catalytic sites.
AbstractThis is the first study documenting the induction of γ-interferon (IFN–γ) in human embryonic fibroblasts during human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) replication. Infection of cells with HCMV resulted in the consistent production of IFN-γ RNA, as determined by RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis. Western blot analysis of cell lysates and immunoprecipitates from the cultural fluids of infected cells demonstrated the presence of IFN-γ at the protein level. Induction of IFN-γ required infectious HCMV, since high-dose ultraviolet inactivation of the virus stock eliminated IFN-γ production. Further, IFN-γ induction appears to be a late event in the virus replication cycle, since inhibition of HCMV DNA synthesis (e.g., phosphonoacetic acid) blocked the increase in IFN-γ. Soluble factor(s) released from HCMV-infected cells apparently did not contribute to the induction of IFN-γ, since virus stocks from which virus had been removed by sedimentation did not induce production of IFN-γ. The appearance of IFN-γ at late ...
Enolase, a dimeric enzyme, in the presence of Mg$\sp{2+}$ catalyzes the reversible dehydration of 2-phospho-D-glycerate (2PGA) to form phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) in the glycolytic pathway. Studies in the inactivation of rabbit muscle enolase by NaClO$\sb4$ show that both Mg$\sp{2+}$ and 2PGA protect the enzyme from the inactivation. The protection provided by Mg$\sp{2+}$ and 2PGA is attributed to a series of interactions between the ligands and the active site residues, and to the interactions throughout the side chains of the secondary elements in the two monomers. However, surprisingly, in the absence of Mg$\sp{2+}$, 2PGA still protects the apo-enolase from inactivation even at high concentrations of metal chelating reagents such as EDTA and EGTA. This is not supposed to occur because, according to the literature, the substrate binds to the enzyme only when a divalent metal ion is bound in the high affinity site I. Inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy was applied to the apo-enolase sample to identify the trace metal ions, but those trace metal ions are not responsible for the protection of the apo-enolase by 2PGA. The effects of several inhibitory substrate analogues, phosphoglycolate, phosphonoacetic acid, 3PGA and glycerol 2-phosphate, were characterized. (Abstract shortened by UMI.)
Summary The present investigations were undertaken to determine the possible effects of two carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, benzo(a)pyrene and 3-methylcholanthrene on Herpesvirus saimiri replication. The results from these experiments were compared with the effects of phosphonoacetic acid on the virus replication cycle. Phosphonoacetic acid inhibited the synthesis of virus-induced intracellular late antigens, membrane antigens, and infectious virus but not the synthesis of the early antigens induced by H. saimiri. In contrast, benzo(a)pyrene and 3-methylcholanthrene inhibited primarily membrane antigen expression and infectious virus production. Benzo(a)pyrene was the most effective of the two compounds, with significant inhibition occurring with 2 µg/ml, whereas a minimum concentration of 10 µg/ml was required with 3-methylcholanthrene. Both compounds were most effective when present continuously during the 4-day infection process. However, exposure of infected cultures to a 3-hr pulse with each chemical also inhibited membrane antigen expression. Furthermore, pretreatment of cells for 48 hr before virus infection resulted in the inhibition of membrane antigen expression but not that of early or late antigens. These results demonstrate that some carcinogenic chemicals are capable of altering the H. saimiri replication cycle, primarily by inhibiting some but not all late events.
The inorganic pyrophosphatase activity was determined in different tissues of mice. The immunization of mice by sheep erythrocytes increased the inorganic pyrophosphatase activity of the spleen. The in vivo administration of bisphosphonates (40 mg per 1 g of mass), which are structural analogs of inorganic pyrophosphate (methylene bisphosphonic acid--MBPA, hydroxyethylidene bisphosphonic acid--HEBPA and aminomethylene bisphosphonic acid--AMBPA), inhibited the inorganic pyrophosphatase activity only by MBPA in the thymus and spleen but not in liver. The addition of MBPA, HEBPA as well as of phosphonoacetic acid, imidobisphosphate, bis(phosphonomethyl)-phosphonic acid, MBPA and phosphoric acid monoanhydride to cytosol from the mouse spleen led to the competitive (relative to the [Mg (PPi)2-] complex) inhibition of the inorganic pyrophosphatase activity. AMBPA didn't possess the analogous effect.
EHV-1 polypeptide synthesis was examined in productively infected rabbit kidney and hamster embryo cells. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) analyses of extracts from [35S]methionine- and 3H-amino acid-labeled-infected and mock-infected cultures revealed the presence of 30 infected cell-specific polypeptides (ICPs) which ranged in apparent molecular weights from 16.5K to 213K. Twenty-two of these ICPs comigrated with virion structural proteins. Four ICPs (203K, 176K, 151K, 129K) were detected in extracts of infected cultures labeled in the presence or absence of actinomycin D (Act D) immediately after release from a 4-hr treatment with cycloheximide (CH). These polypeptides, which were designated as EHV-1 immediate early (alpha) ICPs, were not detected in unblocked (non-CH-treated) infected cells. The most abundant ICP was a 31.5K nonstructural protein which, in addition to a 74K protein, was detected in unblocked infected cells at 2-3 hr postinfection. These proteins appeared to be regulated as early (beta) ICPs, since neither protein was observed in Act D-treated cultures released from CH block. Twelve ICPs were classified as late (gamma) polypeptides on the basis of their reduced synthesis in cultures in which viral DNA replication was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid. All but one (40K) of these late ICPs corresponded to virion structural proteins.
A murine monoclonal antibody (MAb) (15TD3) was found to recognize a unique filamentous structure in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-producing lymphoblastoid cell lines. By immunofluorescent morphology, in comparison with a control MAb to vimentin, the 15TD3 filamentous structure was judged to be associated with intermediate filaments of the cytoskeleton. Expression of the 15TD3 antigen and vimentin was induced simultaneously in some EBV genome-positive cell lines either by EBV superinfection or by 12-0-tetradecanoyl-1-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) and n-butyrate treatment. The 15TD3 antigen was considered to be a restricted component of the EBV-induced early antigen (EA) complex. The 15TD3 antigen was expressed only in EBV genome-activated cells after either spontaneous EBV genome activation, EBV superinfection, or TPA and n-butyrate treatment. The expression of 15TD3 antigen paralleled the induction of EA in several models of induction of EBV antigens, and was detected only in EA+ cells which were stained with anti-EA+ human sera. The reactivity of 15TD3 MAb was blocked with anti-EA+ human serum, but not with anti-EA- serum. The synthesis of 15TD3 antigen was not inhibited with phosphonoacetic acid, was resistant to acetone fixation, and was sensitive to ethanol (or methanol) fixation. Human lymphoblastoid cells from patients with acute infectious mononucleosis were cloned for the production of antibodies which detected EBV-specific or -nonspecific epitopes on filamentous structures. Two human MAb were defined by two-color immunofluorescence to react to the 15TD3 determinants on intermediate filaments of EBV+ cells. This study supports the following views: that EBV genome activation induces a structure associated with intermediate filaments, and that antibodies against both the EBV-specific, intermediate filament-associated epitope and native intermediate filament epitopes are produced by some EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines from patients with infectious mononucleosis.
Abstract Two herpes simplex virus mutants containing mutated residues within the conserved Exo III motif of the polymerase gene were previously shown to be defective in 3′–5′ exonuclease activity and exhibited extremely high mutation frequencies. In this study, we have shown that these mutants also exhibited higher resistance to phosphonoacetic acid and sensitivity to aphidicolin and all nucleoside analogs tested, including acyclovir and gancicolvir, compared to wild-type virus. Marker transfer experiments and sequencing analyses demonstrated that these altered phenotypes were the result of mutations within the Exo III motif. The data indicate that, aside from leading to exonuclease deficiency, mutations in the Exo III motif may also affect interaction of nucleoside triphosphates with the catalytic sites of polymerase activity.
An Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-producing human lymphoblastoid cell line (P3HR-1) was characterized after prolonged exposure to 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine (acyclovir). P3HR-1 cells grown for 11 months in the presence of acyclovir had the same number of EBV genomes (approximately 15/cell) as did short-term acyclovir-treated cells. After removal of the drug, the number of EBV genome equivalents of long-term acyclovir-treated cultures (15/cell) returned to P3HR-1 control levels (340/cell). Indirect immunofluorescence studies demonstrated reduced percentages of long-term (6 to 12 months) acyclovir-treated P3HR-1 cells expressing both EBV early antigens (EA) and viral capsid antigens (VCA). This contrasts with short-term acyclovir-treated cultures where EA is expressed at normal levels even though VCA expression is reduced. Restriction fragment patterns of the total EBV DNA from both short and long-term acyclovir-treated cultures were identical with the exception of two fragments present in short- but not long-term acyclovir-treated cultures. EBV-associated DNA polymerase was present in long-term acyclovir-treated cultures with the level of activity, as determined by assay in vitro, comparable to that in untreated P3HR-1 cells. The polymerase activity in the treated cells was sensitive in vitro to acyclovir triphosphate, N-ethyimaleimide (NEM), and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). These studies demonstrate that acyclovir inhibits the EBV-productlve cycle in P3HR-1 cells continuously during extended periods of treatment.
Abstract Electron spin resonance spectroscopy was used to study manganese(II) complexes with several organic ligands in aqueous solutions. The concentration formation constants of manganese complexes with deprotonated (L) and monoprotonated (HL) phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) were determined at different ionic strengths. These values were extrapolated to the zero ionic strength in order to determine the thermodynamic values of the complexation constants. The values obtained are: log K PAA HL = 3.5 ± 0.2, and log K PAA L = 6.3 ± 0.1. The formation constants of manganese complexes with phosphonoformic acid (PFA), 3-phosphonopropionic acid (3-PPA), and citric acid were measured at ionic strength of 0.05 and were found to be: log K PFA HL = 2.57 ± 0.05, log K PFA L = 5.34 ± 0.05, log K 3-PPA HL = 1.6 ± 0.2, log K 3-PPA L = 3.15 ± 0.04, and log K citric acid L = 4.28 ± 0.04. In aqueous solutions manganese(II) ion does not appear to form complexes with the crown ethers 12C4, 15C5, or 18C6, while the cryptand C211-Mn(II) complex has a log K f of 1.6 ± 0.1.
Phosphonates are organophosphorus molecules that contain the highly stable C-P bond, rather than the more common, and more labile, C-O-P phosphate ester bond. They have ancient origins but their biosynthesis is widespread among more primitive organisms and their importance in the contemporary biosphere is increasingly recognized; for example phosphonate-P is believed to play a particularly significant role in the productivity of the oceans. The microbial degradation of phosphonates was originally thought to occur only under conditions of phosphate limitation, mediated exclusively by the poorly characterized C-P lyase multienzyme system, under Pho regulon control. However, more recent studies have demonstrated the Pho-independent mineralization by environmental bacteria of three of the most widely distributed biogenic phosphonates: 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (ciliatine), phosphonoacetic acid, and 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid (phosphonoalanine). The three phosphonohydrolases responsible have unique specificities and are members of separate enzyme superfamilies; their expression is regulated by distinct members of the LysR family of bacterial transcriptional regulators, for each of which the phosphonate substrate of the respective degradative operon serves as coinducer. Previously no organophosphorus compound was known to induce the enzymes required for its own degradation. Whole-genome and metagenome sequence analysis indicates that the genes encoding these newly described C-P hydrolases are distributed widely among prokaryotes. As they are able to function under conditions in which C-P lyases are inactive, the three enzymes may play a hitherto-unrecognized role in phosphonate breakdown in the environment and hence make a significant contribution to global biogeochemical P-cycling.
Abstract A temperature-sensitive ( ts ) mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), ts P23, markedly inhibited the growth of the wild-type virus from which it was derived in mixed infectiobs at the nonpermissive temperature. When cells were mixedly infected with equal multiplicities of ts P23 and other HSV-1 mutants, complementation was inefficient. However, complementation indices increased as the multiplicity of ts P23 decreased relative to that of the other mutant, indicating that interference by ts P23 is a function of the dose of the mutant gene. Biochemically, ts P23 is DNA-negative, overproduces certain immediate early and delayed early viral polypeptides, and underproduces late, structural gene products. Patterns of viral DNA and protein synthesis in cells mixedly infected with ts P23 and the wild-type virus at the nonpermissive temperature were similar to those of cells infected with the mutant alone at this temperature. Temperature-shift studies and the kinetics of interference by ts P23 with the growth of the wild-type virus indicate that the mutant is arrested early in the replicative cycle. In support of this hypothesis is the observation that viral polypeptide synthesis in cells infected with ts P23 at 39° was similar but not identical to that observed in cells infected with the wild-type virus in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, a drug which is thought to act directly on the viral DNA polymerase molecule, a delayed-early viral gene product. The interfering properties of the mutant, the timing of the inhibitory effect, and the kinetics of protein synthesis in mutant-infected cells at 39° indicate that ts P23 is a dominant lethal mutant with a primary defect in a “trans” acting, delayed early gene function essential for viral DNA synthesis.
Abstract The activity of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and phosphonoformic acid (PFA) against four strains of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and four strains of HSV-2 were compared in tissue culture and in a murine model of genital herpes. In mouse embryo fibroblast cells, both drugs were three-fold more active against the HSV-1 strains than against the HSV-2 strains. In contrast, in the animal model infections, PAA appeared to be more active against the HSV-2 strains, while PFA was equally effective against both HSV types. In mice infected intravaginally with HSV-2 and treated with intravaginal 5% PAA, none of the treated mice became infected, replication of virus in the genital tract was completely inhibited, none of the infected mice died from encephalitis, and latent infection in lumbosacral ganglia of surviving animals was completely prevented. In the HSV-1 genital infection treated with PAA, 20–60% of mice became infected, replication of virus in the genital tract was strikingly reduced, none of the infected mice died, and latent infection was completely prevented. In both HSV-2 and HSV-1 genital infections, 20–70% of animals treated with 8% PFA became infected, growth of virus in the genital tract was reduced significantly but not completely suppressed, mortality was variably altered, and there was a trend towards reduction in the frequency of latent infection. These results indicate that HSV-1 strains are more sensitive to PAA and PFA in tissue culture, but the HSV-2 strains are generally more amenable to therapy in the murine model of genital herpes. Although PAA appeared to be more active than PFA in the genital infection, both drugs significantly altered the course of the infection. Since dermal toxicity associated with PAA precludes its use in humans and since PFA is already undergoing trials in patients with recurrent herpes labialis, the current results suggest that topical PFA deserves further evaluation in the treatment of mucocutaneous HSV infections, including genital herpes.
Abstract A method is described by which an unselected marker can be inserted into the vaccinia virus genome. Cells were infected with defective virus (either isatin-β-thiosemicarbazone dependent or temperature sensitive) and then cotransformed with a mixture of full-length wild-type genomic vaccinia virus DNA and a cloned vaccinia DNA molecule containing an allele for phosphonoacetic acid resistance. After incubation under conditions which are nonpermissive for the defective virus but which do not select for incorporation of phosphonoacetic acid resistance, the virus yields were assayed for the presence of all markers involved. phosphonoacetic acid resistance was inserted into an otherwise wild-type genome with an efficiency of 25–33%. This represents an increase in efficiency of 150 to 3000-fold relative to controls. The procedure should be extremely useful for engineering the vaccinia virus genome.
In an earlier paper (Morse et al., J. Virol 24:231--248, 1977) we reported on the provenance of the DNA sequences in 26 herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) X HSV-2 recombinants as determined from analyses of their DNAs with at least five restriction endonucleases. This report deals with the polypeptides specified by the recombinants and by their HSV-1 and HSV-2 parents. We have identified (i) the corresponding HSV-1 and HSV-2 polypeptides with molecular weights ranging from 20,000 to more than 200,000, (ii) the polypeptides that undergo rapid post-translational processing, and (iii) polypeptides that vary intratypically in apparent molecular weight. By comparing the segregation patterns of the polypeptides with those of the DNA sequence of the recombinants, we have mapped the templates specifying 26 polypeptides and several viral functions on the physical map of HSV DNA. The data show the following: (i) alpha polypeptides map at the termini of the L and S components of the HSV DNA. Although alpha ICP 27 maps entirely within the reiterated region of the L component, the template for alpha ICP 4 may lie only in part within the reiterated sequences of the S component. Of note is the finding that cells infected with a recombinant that contains both HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNA sequences in the S component produced alpha ICP 4 of both HSV-1 and HSV-2. (ii) Templates specifying beta and gamma polypeptides map in the L component and appear to be randomly distributed. (iii) Thymidine kinase and resistance to phosphonoacetic acid mapped in the L component. In addition, we have taken advantage of the rapid inhibition of host protein synthesis characteristic of HSV-2 infections and syncytial plaque morphology to also map the template(s) responsible for these functions in the L component. The implications of the template arrangement in HSV DNA are discussed.
We are reporting the physical location of parental DNA sequences in 28 recombinants produced by crossing herpes simplex viruses (HSV) 1 and 2. The parental crosses were of two kinds. In the first, temperature-sensitive mutants of HSV-1 and HSV-2 were crossed to produce wild-type recombinants. In the second, temperature-sensitive mutants of HSV-1 rendered resistant to phosphonoacetic acid were crossed with wild-type HSV-2, and recombinants that multiplied at nonpermissive temperature and were resistant to the drug were selected. The DNAs of the recombinants were mapped with XbaI, EcoRI, HpaI, HsuI, BglII, and, in some instances, KpnI restriction endonucleases. The results were as follows. (i) We established the colinear arrangements of HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNAs. (ii) There was extensive interchange of genomic regions, ranging from the exchange or the entire L of S component of HSV DNA to substitutions of regions within the same component. In some recombinants, the reiterated sequences ab and ac bracketing the L and S components of HSV DNA were heterotypic. Most recombinants grew well and showed no obvious defects. (iii) The number of crossover events ranged from one to as many as six. Although crossover events occurred throughout the DNA, some clustering of crossover events was observed. (iv) Analysis of recombinants permitted localization of several markers used in this study and appears to be a useful technique for marker mapping. (v) As previously reported, HSV DNA consists of four populations, differing in relative orientation of the L and S components. All recombinants could be displayed in one arrangement of L and S such that the number of crossover events was minimized. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that only one arrangement of the parental DNA participates in the generation of recombinants.
Novel phosphorus-containing acrylate monomers were synthesized by two different routes. The first involved the reaction of ethyl α-chloromethyl acrylate and t-butyl α-bromomethyl acrylate with diethylphosphonoacetic acid. The monomers were bulk- and solution-polymerized at 56–64 °C with 2,2′-azobisisobutyronitrile. The ethyl ester monomer showed a high crosslinking tendency under these conditions. The selective hydrolysis of the ethyl ester phosphonic ester compound was carried out with trimethylsilyl bromide, producing a phosphonic acid monomer. In the second route, ethyl α-hydroxymethyl acrylate and t-butyl α-hydroxymethyl acrylate were reacted with diethylchlorophosphate. The bulk homopolymerization and copolymerization of these monomers with methyl methacrylate and 2,2′-azobisisobutyronitrile gave soluble polymers. The attempted hydrolysis of the monomers was unsuccessful because of the loss of the diethylphosphate group. The relative reactivities of the monomers in the photopolymerizations were also compared. The ethyl α-hydroxymethyl acrylate/diethylphosphonic acid monomer showed higher reactivity than the other monomers, which may explain the crosslinking during the polymerization of this monomer. The reactivities of other derivatives were similar, but the rates of polymerization were slow in comparison with those of methyl methacrylate. © 2002 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 40: 3221–3231, 2002
A transmissible agent, the IM virus, antigenically related to the Japanese subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy virus, has been isolated from several human cerebrospinal fluids obtained from American patients with multiple sclerosis and other chronic diseases of the central nervous system. The isolates were propagated in human diploid fibroblast (MRC5) cells, and virus was released into the culture medium in the absence of overt cytolysis. Infection of MRC5 cells resulted in a subtle alteration in the normal growth pattern of the cells. In unstained cultures, the cell changes were so mild that it was necessary to carry out all virus assays under code to eliminate bias. Cells in late passages were more susceptible than vigorously growing cells in early passages. Analysis of the kinetics of replication revealed that newly synthesized progeny virus was first detected about 12 h postinfection, that maximal virus release occurred by 48 h postinfection, and that virus production was persistent throughout an 8-day period. Several inhibitors of DNA synthesis were effective in blocking viral replication, including cytosine arabinoside, iododeoxyuridine, and phosphonoacetic acid. A substantial decrease in infectivity was observed upon treatment of IM virus with ether, suggesting that a lipid-containing structure is essential for infectivity. Ultrafiltration studies approximated the size (diameter) of IM virus to be between 100 and 200 nm.
The use of bifunctional phosphonate anions and metal cations that can adopt different co-ordination environments is proposed as a strategy for synthesising porous metal phosphonates. The hydrothermal methods described use phosphonic acids and dialkylphosphonates, which are hydrolysed in situ by the acidic metal solutions, to derive the desired phosphonate anions. A series of isostructural hydroxymethylphosphonates, M(O3PCH2OH) ::: [M = Zn, Co, Cu and Mn], which contain a hexagonal array of cylindrical channels (approximate diameter 5.7 A), were prepared by reaction of the relevant metal acetate with diethyl hydroxymethylphosphonate. Zn(O3PCH2C(O)NH2)·H2O was prepared by reaction of zinc acetate and diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate. The structure was determined by single crystal X-ray diffraction and contains two orthogonal channel systems with water molecules situated at the intersections of the channels. Zn3(O3PCH2CO2)2·nH2O [n ::: = 3, 4] was prepared by reaction of phosphonoacetic acid and zinc acetate. Single crystal analysis reveals the presence of channels in the [100] direction with a cross-section of 10.02 × 6.78 A. All three of the Zn-based materials can be isomorphously doped with Co.
Water is the most commonly used cooling fluid to remove unwanted heat from heat transfer surfaces. If absolutely pure water was used in the cooling system, none of the problems would exist. Unfortunately, waters contain dissolved and suspended solids, dissolved and suspended organic matters and dissolved gases. Finally, in cooling water system, with longer holding times at higher temperatures in the presence of higher dissolved solids concentrations, produces more severe corrosion and scale 1 . Many inhibitors have been used in cooling water systems in order to solve this problems [2] [3] [4] [5] . Particularly, fatty amine associated with phosphonocarboxylic acid salts, hydroxyethane diphosphonic acid (HEDP) and hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPA) were the standard corrosion inhibitors [6] [7] [8] . Other researchers concentrated their studies on synergy between molybdate and others organic and inorganic compounds for corrosion inhibition for water treatment in cooling systems 9 . Gluconate and the gluconic acid are known to be effective non-toxic inhibitors for iron and mild steel in cooling water systems 10, 11 . Sodium, calcium and zinc salts of gluconic acid have been reported to be successful inhibitors against the corrosion of tin, iron and of the mild steel in near neutral media 12 . Quaternary phosphonium compounds are known to
The effect of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) on reproduction of vaccinia virus in chick embryo fibroblast cultures and on the development of vaccinia virus infection in rabbits was studied. In vitro the preparation was tested as a solution, in vivo as a solution and ointment. In rabbits, the preparation was applied epicutaneously and inoculated subcutaneously and intravenously. All these routes were found to be effective. A single application conferred a much lower protective effect than daily administration for 4 days. Poly (I).poly (C) administered subcutaneously was found to be more effective than PAA. The latter in tissue culture exerted a marked inhibiting effect when used in a dose of 100 microgram/ml.
The solid-phase library synthesis of triazolopyridazines was accomplished using a [4+2] cycloaddition strategy. The Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons (HWE) reagent diethylphosphonoacetic acid was attached to the N-terminus of amino acids on Rink amide solid-phase peptide synthesis support. The HWE reaction with a variety of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes gave high conversion to diene amides. Subsequent [4+2] cycloaddition with 4-substituted urazines gave triazolopyridazines upon cleavage from resin. An alternate [4+2] cycloaddition method with urazine followed by a Mitsunobu reaction also provided triazolopyridazines.
This article reports the hydrothermal synthesis and characterization of two new phosphonate compounds NaCo[O3PCH(OH)CO2] (1) and NaMn[O3PCH(OH)CO2] (2) based on 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (H3L). Their structures have been characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction as well as with elemental analysis, infrared spectroscopy and thermogravimetric analysis. The two isomorphous compounds crystalline in the orthorhombic, space group Pbca: Crystal data for 1: a = 10.1827(8) A, b = 9.6673(8) A, c = 10.7853(9) A, V = 1061.70(15) A3, Z = 8, R 1 = 0.0252, wR 2 = 0.0577; Crystal data for 2: a = 10.4309(18) A, b = 9.7913(17) A, c = 10.9012(19) A, V = 1113.4(3) A3, Z = 8, R 1 = 0.0194, wR 2 = 0.0536. In the two compounds, the metal atoms are octahedrally coordinated; all oxygen atoms from the H3L ligand are involved in coordination. The overall structures can be described as a 3D open framework with channels running along the a axis and the charge-compensating Na+ cations being located at the intersections of ...
Abstract DNA-mediated transfer of a drug resistance marker (phosphonoacetate resistance for the HVMW (Towne) DNA polymerase ( pol ) gene has been used to genetically confirm the physical localization of the HCMV (Towne) DNA pol gene. The HCMV (Towne) genomic region homologous to the pol genes of other herpesviruses was first identified by moderate stringency Southern hybridization. Restriction fragments from this region were molecularly cloned from previously characterized phosphonoacetic acid resistant (PAA r )HCMV genomes (R. T. D'Aquila and W. C. Summers, J. Virol. , 61. 1291–1295, 1987). A high frequency of recombinant PAA r virus was found among the progeny of cotransfections of infectious, wild-type HCMV (Towne) DNA only with pol -homologous restriction fragments cloned from PAA r HCMV. The co-transfection technique described here may facilitate further gene mapping in HCMV. The results presented here provide functional proof that the HCMV pol gene is encoded by the sequences previously identified as homologous to other herpesvirus pol genes.
Abstract We have identified, characterized, and expressed in bacteria and recombinant vaccinia viruses a protein which likely represents the murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) homologue of the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) 28-kDa matrix phosphoprotein, the product of the HCMV UL99 open reading frame (ORF). This protein, referred to as the MCMV UL99, is encoded by a 336-nucleotide ORF within the Hin dIII G fragment of MCMV strain Smith (K181). Using a DNA probe that corresponded to the amino terminus of the ORF, we detected a transcript of 4.8 kb at 8 hr and additional transcripts of 0.88, 2.4, and 5.7 kb at 24-48 hr postinfection (p.i.) of NIH 3T3 cells with MCMV. The smallest transcript is unspliced, initiates 235 nucleotides upstream from the start of the ORF, and utilizes a polyadenylation site located 62 nucleotides downstream from the end of the ORF. The ORF encodes a protein of 112 amino acids, with a predicted mass of 11.8 kDa. Comparison of the derived amino acid sequence with that of the HCMV UL99 gene product reveals 34.8% identity in an overlap of 66 amino acids. Within the amino acid sequence are at least two potential protein kinase C and one potential casein kinase II target motifs for phosphorylation. The ORF was cloned into the pGEX-KG prokaryotic expression vector and bacterially expressed protein was used to generate a specific rabbit antiserum against the protein. Western blotting of MCMV-infected NIH 3T3 cells showed that the ORF was expressed as a doublet of 16.3 and 15.2 kDa at 48 hr p.i. only in the absence of phosphonoacetic acid, thus demonstrating that this protein is a member of the true late gene class. The immunoreactive protein in MCMVinfected cells comigrated with that produced in cells infected with recombinant vaccinia virus containing the ORF. The protein appears to be part of the MCMV virion, is phosphorylated in vivo, and generates a strong humoral immune response following MCMV infection of BALB/c mice.
The physical state of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA in three cell lines which spontaneously produce virus has been characterized. Circular EBV DNA molecules have been found in P3HR-1, B95-8 and M81 ceils. The size of the intracellular M81 circular EBV DNA molecules is comparable with the linear virus genome isolated from virus particles but the circular P3HR-I and B95-8 DNA molecules are shorter than the virion DNA. In addition to the circular form, some EBV DNA with physical properties indicative of integrated sequences was found in all three producer cell lines. There was no marked change in the amount of either the circular of integrated forms of EBV DNA when these producer cell lines were grown in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid to suppress the spontaneous virus production which occurs in a small percentage of the cells in untreated cultures.
Abstract ::: We have transferred a genetic locus determining resistance to phosphonoacetic acid (PAAr) from one herpes simplex viral genome to another by two methods of marker transfer. One method requires recombination between an intact DNA molecule and a restriction endonuclease DNA fragment, whereas the other requires repair of a partial heteroduplex formed between the two DNA molecules. These two methods mapped the PAAr locus between positions 0.45 and 0.53 map units on the physical map of the viral DNA. Fine mapping of the PAAr locus showed that it maps at or near an EcoRI restriction endonuclease site at either 0.46 or 0.49 map units. We also describe and compare the two methods of marker transfer.
Herpesvirus gene expression can be classified into four distinct kinetic stages: latent, immediate early, early, and late. Here we characterize the kinetic class of a group of 16 Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV)/human herpesvirus 8 genes in a cultured primary effusion cell line and examine the expression of a subset of these genes in KS biopsies. Expression of two latent genes, LANA and vFLIP, was constitutive and was not induced by chemicals that induce the lytic cycle in primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) cell lines. An immediate-early gene, Rta (open reading frame 50 [ORF50]), was induced within 4 h of the addition of n-butyrate, and its 3.6-kb mRNA was resistant to inhibition by cycloheximide. Early genes, including K3 and K5 that are homologues of the "immediate-early" gene of bovine herpesvirus 4, K8 that is a positional homologue of Epstein-Barr virus BZLF1, vMIP II, vIL-6, and polyadenylated nuclear (PAN) RNA, appeared 8 to 13 h after chemical induction. A second group of early genes that were slightly delayed in their appearance included viral DHFR, thymidylate synthase, vMIP I, G protein-coupled receptor, K12, vBcl2, and a lytic transcript that overlapped LANA. The transcript of sVCA (ORF65), a late gene whose expression was abolished by Phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of KSHV DNA replication, did not appear until 30 h after induction. Single-cell assays indicated that the induction of lytic cycle transcripts resulted from the recruitment of additional cells into the lytic cycle. In situ hybridization of KS biopsies showed that about 3% of spindle-shaped tumor cells expressed Rta, ORF K8, vIL-6, vMIP I, vBcl-2, PAN RNA, and sVCA. Our study shows that several KSHV-encoded homologues of cellular cytokines, chemokines, and antiapoptotic factors are expressed during the viral lytic cycle in PEL cell lines and in KS biopsies. The lytic cycle of KSHV, probably under the initial control of the KSHV/Rta gene, may directly contribute to tumor pathogenesis.
The invention relates to a novel quinazoline compound and a method for preparing a quinazoline crotyl compound for treating or preventing various adaptation diseases related to EGFR and HER2 kinase functions from the quinazoline compound. The method comprises the following steps: firstly, reacting a raw material with amino with diethylphosphonoacetic acid and N,N'-carbonyl dimidazole in a solvent at 25 DEG C to 50 DEG C, so as to transform the amino in the raw material into diethyl phosphorus acetamido to obtain an intermediate, and subsequently reacting the intermediate with N,N'-di-substituted acetaldehyde in a solvent in the presence of an alkali substance at minus 30 DEG C to minus 20 DEG C, thereby generating the target compound. By adopting the procedures, by virtue of simple aftertreatment, the target product of which the purity is greater than 98% is obtained, the total yield of the target product is as high as 74%, and in addition, by adopting the method, preparation of kilo-rate target products is successfully achieved, and batch production is easy to achieve.
Abstract Phosphonoacetic acid has been shown to suppress replication of DNA tumor viruses by inhibiting the activity of virus-induced DNA polymerase and consequently viral DNA synthesis. We now have evidence to show that phosphonoacetic acid inhibits also the cellular DNA polymerases α, β, and γ of L1210 cells as well as reverse transcriptases of two type C viruses. Particularly, the DNA polymerase α is just as senstive as the herpes virus-induced DNA polymerase. The DNA polymerases β and γ required seven times more phosphonoacetic acid for a 50% inhibition of their activities. Phosphonoacetic acid inhibited the activities of the reverse transcriptase and terminal deoxyribonucleotidyltransferase only at higher concentrations. Kinetic analysis with the DNA polymerase α showed that the compound is a non-competitive inhibitor with respect to the substrates and uncompetitive inhibitor with the activated DNA template. Studies on time course of phosphonoacetic acid inhibition revealed that the compound is inhibitory even after the initiation of DNA synthesis. Phosphonoacetic acid also inhibited cell growth as well as the type C virus production; at concentrations above 50 μg/ml, the inhibitory effect was more profound on the type C virus production than on cell growth.
The modification of tyrosine residues of the human placenta DNA-polymerase alpha by N-acetylimidazole was investigated. The poly(dT)-template and the r(pA)10-primer a each added separately or simultaneously do not influence the rate of enzyme inactivation. In the presence of poly(dT)-r(pA)10 no effect of dCTP and dTTP (noncomplementary to template) and of dAMP and dADP (complementary to template) on the rate and the level of the enzyme inactivation was found. However dATP revealed practically complete protection. Orthophosphate, pyrophosphate each taken separately do not influence the rate of enzyme inactivation with this reagent. The presence of dADP with either ortho- or pyrophosphate, or dAMP with the one of these ligands leads to half protective action in comparison with dATP. Imidazolides of phosphonoacetic acid and 5'-adenylyl++ 1(phosphonoacetic acid) do not inactivate DNA-polymerase alpha from human placenta and the Klenov fragment of DNA-polymerase I from E. coli. All data obtained allow to suggest that the tyrosine residue in the dNTP binding site of DNA-polymerase reveals stacking with the nucleotide only if dNTP is complementary to the template.
β-Aryl-β-ketophosphonates can be efficiently prepared in good yield by using a TFAA/85% H3PO4-mediated acylation of electron-rich arenes with phosphonoacetic acids. The conditions offer advantages over existing methods of preparing these useful compounds by not requiring the use of strong base, cryogenics, or an anhydrous and inert atmosphere. Furthermore, some functional groups not tolerated with the reaction conditions used in existing methods are compatible with the herein described conditions.
Primary effusion lymphomas (PELs) are invariably infected by the human herpesvirus 8 (HHV8) that is present in most PEL cells as latent virus but replicates in a subset of permissive cells to produce infectious progeny. Here we show that productively infected PEL cells release C-type retrovirus-like particles encoding an Mn++-dependent RT activity, which is typical of endogenous retroviruses. Strikingly, C-type particles are produced only in cells showing advanced HHV8 morphogenesis. Phorbol esters, which induce productive HHV8 replication and morphogenesis in PEL cells, increase RLP production. Phosphonoacetic acid, a blocker of HHV8 late gene expression, inhibits the production of C-type particles, whereas neutralizing anti-αIFN antibodies, which are known to increase HHV8 assembly, increases C-type particle production. These data suggest that factors expressed in advanced stages of HHV8 reactivation support endogenous C-type particle morphogenesis in PEL cells.
By constructing crosses involving the genes coding for the enzyme deoxypyrimidine kinase and for resistance to the drug phosphonoacetic acid, it has been possible both to extend the genetic analysis of HSV-1 such that the eight possible progeny genotypes which arise from a three-factor cross can be identified and also to precisely locate the gene for the plaque-morphology marker syn, the gene for deoxypyrimidine kinase dPYK and the gene for resistance to phosphonoacetic acid PAAr.
Infection of serum-deprived human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF-cells) by cytomegalovirus (HCMV) resulted in enhanced precursor incorporation into glycosphingolipids (GSL). Analysis of the component patterns revealed a unique biphasic effect on the rate labeling of neutral GSL. Early during infection or in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, radiolabel was found predominantly in ceramide tri- and tetrahexoside, whereas late after infection label in ceramide monohexoside exceeded that in the other components. Determination of the chemical amounts of neutral GSL components from infected cultures supported the view of increased biosynthesis of ceramide tri- and tetrahexoside early, and of ceramide monohexoside late postinfection. Changes, comparable to those observed under the influence of "early" viral functions were observed also during S-phase of serum-stimulated HFF cells. With respect to acidic GSL a decrease of metabolic labeling occurred late during infection. Relatively little alteration was found in the component pattern.
Two monoclonal antibodies, E8B3 and E8D2, were raised against Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-producing cells and were shown to immunoprecipitate a protein with an approximate molecular weight of 105,000 (p105). The protein was detectable only in EBV-containing cells which were supporting the virus lytic cycle, and its synthesis increased after cells were induced with phorbol esters. The molecule was radiolabeled and immunoprecipitated from virus-producing cells that had been extrinsically labeled with 125I, and the antibodies E8B3 and E8D2 reacted in immunofluorescence assays with infected cells; the molecule was also associated with virion particles. Synthesis of p105 was not blocked by phosphonoacetic acid and could be induced in Raji cells by superinfection with virus derived from P3HR1 cells. These data support the conclusion that p105 is an EBV-specific early membrane protein.
We observed an increase in host cell protein synthesis in human cord blood lymphocytes (CBL) infected with human herpesvirus 6 relative to uninfected cultures. The magnitude of this effect could not be explained by a smaller decrease in cell number in the infected cultures. The induction of host cell protein synthesis by HHV-6 does not appear to be mediated by a stable soluble factor present in the infected cell culture supernatant. When CBL were infected with virus that had been exposed to ultraviolet irradiation (UV) for various intervals, we found that the level of increase in cell number, host protein synthesis, viral DNA and viral antigen was inversely proportional to the length of time of virus exposure to UV. No increase in cell number or host cell protein synthesis was seen in CBL infected in the presence of 50 micrograms/ml phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of HHV-6 DNA replication. These results indicate that components of input virions do not induce the increased protein synthesis and that the induction is dependent on viral DNA replication.
From the sea-urchin, Hemicentrotus pulcherrismus, we have purified by four column chromatographic steps for DNA polymerase activity. The molecular weight of DNA polymerase u was determined to be around 137,000-138,000 by Sephadex G-200 gel filtration and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The purified enzyme had the optimal activity at pH 7.4. This enzyme showed to be a function of the metal ion employed as activators, the optimum concentration were 20 mM or 25mM and the optimum concentration was 10 mM. The enzyme activity was inhibited by N-ethyl-maleimide, aphidicolin, cytosine 5'-triphoshate (ara CTP) and phosphonoacetic acid.
Expression of the lytic cycle genes of Epstain-Barr virus (EBV) is induced in type I Burkitt's lymphoma-derived cells by treatment with phorbol esters (e.g., phorbol myristate acetate [PMA]), anti-immunoglobulin, or the cytokine transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta). Concomitantly, all these agents induce apoptosis as judged by a sub-G1 fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) profile, proteolytic cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. However, caspase activation is not required for induction of the lytic cycle since the latter is not blocked by the caspase inhibitor ZVAD. Furthermore, not all agents that induce apoptosis in these cultures (for example, cisplatin and ceramide) induce the EBV lytic programme. Although it is closely associated with the lytic cycle, apoptosis is neither necessary nor sufficient for its activation. Multiparameter FACS analysis of cultures treated with PMA, anti-Ig, or TGF-beta revealed BZLF1-expressing cells distributed in different phases of the cell cycle according to which inducer was used. However, BZLF1-positive cells did not appear to undergo apoptosis and accumulate with a sub-G1 DNA content, irrespective of the inducer used. This result, which suggests that lytic gene expression is protective, was confirmed and extended by immunofluorescence staining doubled with TUNEL analysis. BZLF1- and also gp350-expressing cells were almost always shown to be negative for TUNEL staining. Similar experiments using EBV-positive and -negative subclones of Akata BL cells carrying an episomal BZLF1 reporter plasmid confirmed that protection from apoptosis was associated with the presence of the EBV genome. Finally, treatment with phosphonoacetic acid or acyclovir prior to induction with PMA, anti-Ig, or TGF-beta blocked the protective effect in Mutu-I cells. These data suggest that a late gene product(s) may be particularly important for protection against caspase activity and cell death.
Sixteen freshly isolated varicella-zoster virus (VZV) strains were evaluated in vitro, in parallel with two reference strains expressing a functional thymidine kinase (TK+) (Oka and YS) and two thymidine kinase-deficient mutants (TK−) (07–1 and YS-R), for their susceptibility to a broad range of antiviral compounds. The following compounds were included: acyclovir (ACV), brivudine (BVDU), sorivudine (BVaraU), other BVDU congeners such as BTDU, CTDU, CVDC and CVDU, ganciclovir (GCV), FIAC, araT, araA, araC, foscarnet (PFA), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), the acyclic nucleoside phosphonates HPMPC, cHPMPC, HPMPA, cHPMPA, HPMPc3A, PMEA and PMEDAP, the N7-isomeric acyclic nucleoside analogue N7 AP, penciclovir (PCV), compounds 882C87 and H2G and two oxetanocin derivatives OXT-A and OXT-G. Fourteen of the 16 clinical isolates displayed the following order of decreasing selectivity against VZV: BVaraU > BVDU > CVDU ∼ CVDC > H2G > N7AP } CTDU ∼ BTDU ∼ OXT-G ∼ 882C87 > ACV > FIAC ∼ araT > HPMPC ∼ cHPMPC ∼ HPMPA ∼ HPMPc3A ∼ cHPMPA > PCV ∼ GCV ∼ OXT-A > PMEDAP ∼ PMEA > PFA ∼ PAA ∼ araA > araC. Two VZV strains (isolated from the cerebrospinal fluid of an AIDS patient) that were shown to have a truncated TK were clearly resistant to all the compounds that need the viral TK for their phosphorylation, while sensitivity to the acyclic nucleoside phosphonates, PFA, PAA, OXT-A and araA, remained unchanged. A slight (5- and 10-fold) increase was noted in the 50 % inhibitory concentration of N7AP and OXT-G, respectively, for the TK− VZV strains as compared to the TK+ VZV strains. Ganciclovir and FIAC also showed a marked decrease in their activity against these two strains, but this was not as pronounced as for the other viral TK-dependent drugs. From our results, it appears that although acyclic nucleoside phosphonates may not have as favourable a therapeutic index as drugs requiring the viral TK, they should be considered for the treatment of TK− VZV life-threatening infections that are resistant to the viral TK-dependent drugs
Summary ::: [E]-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2′-deoxyuridine (BVdU) inhibits the replication of the baculovirus Trichoplusia ni multiple nucleocapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus in Spodoptera frugiperda cells. Virus-specific DNA synthesis and late protein synthesis are suppressed by the drug. BVdU is phosphorylated by deoxythymidine (deoxycytidine) kinase present in both uninfected and virus-infected cells, and in its 5′-triphosphate form it inhibits DNA polymerase activity in virus-infected cells. The effect of the BVdU is not completely reversible. Phosphonoacetic acid, phosphonoformic acid and Acyclovir have no effect on baculovirus replication. Acyclovir fails to compete with deoxycytidine and thymidine as substrates for pyrimidine deoxynucleoside kinase in virus-infected and uninfected cells.
The first committed step in long-chain fatty acid synthesis is catalyzed by the multienzyme complex acetyl CoA carboxylase. One component of the acetyl CoA carboxylase complex is biotin carboxylase which catalyzes the ATP-dependent carboxylation of biotin. The Escherichia coli form of biotin carboxylase can be isolated from the other components of the acetyl CoA carboxylase complex such that enzymatic activity is retained. The synthesis of a reaction intermediate analog inhibitor of biotin carboxylase has been described recently (Organic Lett. 1, 99-102, 1999). The inhibitor is formed by coupling phosphonoacetic acid to the 1'-N of biotin. In this paper the characterization of the inhibition of biotin carboxylase by this reaction-intermediate analog is described. The analog showed competitive inhibition versus ATP with a slope inhibition constant of 8 mM. Noncompetitive inhibition was found for the analog versus biotin. Phosphonoacetate exhibited competitive inhibition with respect to ATP and noncompetitive inhibition versus bicarbonate. Biotin was found to be a noncompetitive substrate inhibitor of biotin carboxylase. These data suggested that biotin carboxylase had an ordered addition of substrates with ATP binding first followed by bicarbonate and then biotin.
We have transferred a genetic locus determining resistance to phosphonoacetic acid (PAAr) Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) has been shown to inhibit the replication of herpesviruses in experimental animals and in cell cultures (22, 27) . The drug has been shown to inhibit virusspecific DNA replication of these viruses both in infected cells (6, 9) and in cell-free extracts prepared from infected cells (1, 6, 9, 10, 19) . This inhibition is believed to be due to the binding of the drug at the pyrophosphate end product site on the viral DNA polymerase (18).
[E]-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (BVdU) inhibits the replication of the baculovirus Trichoplusia ni multiple nucleocapsid nuclear polyhedrosis virus in Spodoptera frugiperda cells. Virus-specific DNA synthesis and late protein synthesis are suppressed by the drug. BVdU is phosphorylated by deoxythymidine (deoxycytidine) kinase present in both uninfected and virus-infected cells, and in its 5'-triphosphate form it inhibits DNA polymerase activity in virus-infected cells. The effect of the BVdU is not completely reversible. Phosphonoacetic acid, phosphonoformic acid and Acyclovir have no effect on baculovirus replication. Acyclovir fails to compete with deoxycytidine and thymidine as substrates for pyrimidine deoxynucleoside kinase in virus-infected and uninfected cells.
BackgroundIn herpesviruses, UL15 homologue is a subunit of terminase complex responsible for cleavage and packaging of the viral genome into pre-assembled capsids. However, for duck enteritis virus (DEV), the causative agent of duck viral enteritis (DVE), the genomic sequence was not completely determined until most recently. There is limited information of this putative spliced gene and its encoding protein.ResultsDEV UL15 consists of two exons with a 3.5 kilobases (kb) inron and transcribes into two transcripts: the full-length UL15 and an N-terminally truncated UL15.5. The 2.9 kb UL15 transcript encodes a protein of 739 amino acids with an approximate molecular mass of 82 kiloDaltons (kDa), whereas the UL15.5 transcript is 1.3 kb in length, containing a putative 888 base pairs (bp) ORF that encodes a 32 kDa product. We also demonstrated that UL15 gene belonged to the late kinetic class as its expression was sensitive to cycloheximide and phosphonoacetic acid. UL15 is highly conserved within the Herpesviridae, and contains Walker A and B motifs homologous to the catalytic subunit of the bacteriophage terminase as revealed by sequence analysis. Phylogenetic tree constructed with the amino acid sequences of 23 herpesvirus UL15 homologues suggests a close relationship of DEV to the Mardivirus genus within the Alphaherpesvirinae. Further, the UL15 and UL15.5 proteins can be detected in the infected cell lysate but not in the sucrose density gradient-purified virion when reacting with the antiserum against UL15. Within the CEF cells, the UL15 and/or UL15.5 localize(s) in the cytoplasm at 6 h post infection (h p. i.) and mainly in the nucleus at 12 h p. i. and at 24 h p. i., while accumulate(s) in the cytoplasm in the absence of any other viral protein.ConclusionsDEV UL15 is a spliced gene that encodes two products encoded by 2.9 and 1.3 kb transcripts respectively. The UL15 is expressed late during infection. The coding sequences of DEV UL15 are very similar to those of alphaherpesviruses and most similar to the genus Mardivirus. The UL15 and/or UL15.5 accumulate(s) in the cytoplasm during early times post-infection and then are translocated to the nucleus at late times.
Investigations of mutants of human cytomegalovirus (CMV) that are resistant to foscarnet could shed light on mechanisms of selective drug action and features of drug resistance that may be clinically important. Preexisting foscarnet-resistant mutants could not be detected in a stock of wild-type strain AD169 at frequencies greater than 0.0025%. However, foscarnet-resistant mutants could be isolated by passage in increasing drug concentrations. Two independent mutants were shown by plaque reduction and dot-blot hybridization assays to be resistant to phosphonoacetic acid and acyclovir, sensitive to ganciclovir, vidarabine, 2'fluoro-5-iodoarabinosylcytosine, and (S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2- phosphonylmethoxypropyl)cytosine; and hypersensitive to aphidicolin and (S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine. These results have implications for the mutation frequency of CMV, for the possibility that clinically important foscarnet- and acyclovir-resistant CMV infections could emerge, for possible therapies of drug-resistant virus infections, and for the role of viral DNA polymerase in mechanisms of selective action of anti-CMV drugs.
Superinfection of Raji cells with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) or chemical induction of HR-1 cells with 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) results in the induction of a deoxyuridine triphosphate nucleotidohydrolase (dUTPase) which is not observed in mock-treated cells or TPA-treated EBV genome-negative BJAB cells. The EBV-induced dUTPase could be distinguished from the host dUTPase based upon differences in their migration in polyacrylamide gels and sensitivity to the 5-mercurithioguanosine derivitive of dUTP. The expression of the EBV-specified dUTPase is prevented by phosphonoacetic acid indicating that its expression is dependent upon EBV-DNA replication.
We have investigated the induction of Fc receptor (FcR) in different types of lymphoid cell lines (LCL) infected with herpes simplex virus (HSV). Subpopulations of certain of these LCL normally express FcR unrelated to herpetic infection. Differentiation of virus-induced FcR from that related to normal cell function was therefore possible. FcR detection was carried out by means of a rosette assay using ox erythrocytes coated with 7S immunoglobulin G (EA rosettes). Both HSV types 1 and 2 were found to induce FcR in B, T, and "null" (i.e., non-B, non-T) type LCL; however, in all the LCL tested, this HSV-induced FcR expression appeared to be more restricted in the responding T LCL than in responding B and null type LCL. In addition, kinetic experiments revealed that the time course of HSV-induced FcR expression differed among these LCL types tested. Interestingly, a number of LCL were resistant to HSV infection or restricted HSV gene expression, including expression of the viral products responsible for FcR induction. In all the responding HSV-infected LCL, induction of FcR always paralleled the expression of HSV antigens. Synthesis of HSV-induced FcR was shown to be inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of herpesvirus DNA polymerase activity, whereas FcR of non-HSV origin was found to be resistant to inhibitor. This would infer that HSV codes for an FcR which can be differentiated from that of cellular origin by using phosphonoacetic acid. Therefore, two different mechanisms of FcR synthesis may be suggested, one virus mediated and the second probably under cellular control. In addition, the data obtained using Epstein-Barr virus producer as well as isogeneic monoclonal cell lines, with and without the Epstein-Barr virus genome, indicated that the resident Epstein-Barr virus genome in the target cell did not have a detectable effect in the induction of FcR by HSV.
Previous studies haveshownthat after peripheral inoculation, herpes simplex virus (HSV)maybedetected inganglia by20hpostinfection (p.i.), andquantitative datahavebeen obtained regarding theprogress ofvirus accumulation in sensory ganglia during theearly phases oftheinfection (1). Otherexperiments haveshownthattopical application of phosphonoacetic acid(PAA), acyclovir, orphosphonoformicacidshortly after virus inoculation canprevent inmost casesthecolonization ofganglia withHSV(4,6,7,13,15, 17). Compounds suchasarabinosyl adenine orarabinosyl adenine monophosphate areineffective oncomparably early application (5). Thereisnoinformation, however, ontheextent towhich antiviral compounds canlimit theamountofvirus which invades theganglia during theacute phase ofinfection. This information isimportant, since theamountofvirus invading ganglia during theearly phase ofinfection maydetermine the severity oftheprimary episode andthenumberoflatently infected neurons andcould alsoinfluence thefrequency of subsequent recurrent episodes andtheduration ofHSV latency. Inthepresent study, wedetermined thetiter ofinfectious virus detectable intrigeminal ganglia ofmiceafter aseries of topical applications ofPAA initiated atvarious intervals after virus inoculation. Furthermore, we monitored ona daily basis, during andafter theendoftheantiviral treatment,theevolution ofvirus titers intrigeminal ganglia and theinoculated skinareaofHSV-infected mice. Theresults indicate thattheinterval betweenvirus inoculation and initiation ofantiviral treatments hasanimportant influence ontheamountofvirus whichaccumulates inganglia and determines, toalarge extent, theoutcome oftheexperimentalHSV infection.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection of non permissive XC cells (a rat cell line transformed by Rous sarcoma virus) was studied. Using virus labeled with 3H-thymidine it was shown that adsorption is similar to that in a permissive system. By electron microscopy enveloped particles were observed in cytoplasmic vesicles in XC cells but not in the permissive system. However input viral DNA was degraded both in non permissive cells (XC) and permissive cells (HEp-2) and the degradation products were found incorporated into cellular DNA in the first case or into viral DNA in the second case. In the non permissive XC cells, it was possible to detect a small amount of incorporation of radioactive precursors into the viral DNA, identified by its buoyant density in CsCl of 1.726 g/cm3 and by hybridization with viral DNA. This DNA has the size of the native viral genome and its uptake of radioactive precursors was only partially inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, a specific inhibitor of HSV-DNA polymerase. With permissive HEp-2 cells in the presence of such inhibitor, the obtained data are roughly the same as with XC cells, both in the presence or in the absence of phosphonoacetic acid. These results suggest that the observed viral DNA synthesis in XC cells is not a true replication but, further, a repair synthesis and, also, that the same events might take place in the permissive system before the onset of viral DNA replication.
Abstract Reactions of cis -diamminedichloroplatinum(II) with phosphonoformic acid (PFA), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and methylenediphosphonic acid (MDP) yield various phosphonatoplatinum(II) chelates which were characterized by phosphorus-31 NMR spectroscopy. The P-31 resonances for the chelates appear at 6–12 ppm downfield as compared to the uncomplexed ligands. All complexes exhibit monoprotic acidic behavior in the pH range 2–10. The chemical shift-pH profiles yielded acidity constants, 1.0 × 10 −4 , 1.5 × 10 −4 , and 1.3 × 10 −6 M −1 , for the PFA, PAA, and MDP chelates. In addition to the monomeric chelate, MDP formed a bridged diplatinum(II,II) complex when it reacted with cis -Pt (NH 3 ) 2 (H 2 O) 2 2+ . The P-31 resonance for this binuclear complex appears at 22 ppm downfield from the unreacted ligand. Rate data for the complexation reactions of the phosphonate ligands with the dichloroplatinum complex are consistent with a mechanism in which a monodentate complex is formed initially through rate-limiting aquation process of the platinum complex, followed by a rapid chelation. For the PFA and PAA complexes, initial binding sites are the carboxylato oxygens. Implications of the various binding modes of the phosphonates in relationship to their antiviral activities are discussed.
Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is a recently recognized human herpesvirus isolated from lymphoid cells and thought to be the causative agent for exanthem subitum. Using dot blot hybridization, the HHV-6 sensitivity pattern to several antivirals was compared with those of herpes simplex virus type 1 and human cytomegalovirus. HHV-6 most closely resembled cytomegalovirus in that it was relatively resistant to the antiviral effects of acyclovir and bromovinyl-deoxyuridine but sensitive to ganciclovir and phosphonoacetic acid. From these results, it appears more likely that HHV-6 infections would respond to ganciclovir and foscarnet than to acyclovir should treatment be deemed advisable, although the low toxicity of acyclovir may allow for its use at doses that might affect replication of HHV-6.
Antiviral antibody and interferon did not prevent in vitro reactivation of herpes simplex virus in latently infected sensory ganglia. Phosphonoacetic acid and 9-beta-d-arabinofuranosyladenine blocked reactivation, but this treatment did not eradicate the latent infection.
This paper reports on the physical and chemical characteristics of agents isolated from serum samples of patients presenting with epidemic neuropathy. The behaviour of isolated enteroviruses was as described for such viruses. Mild cytopathogenic effects-producing agents behaved in a variable form regarding sensitivity to chloroform; on the other hand they were neither sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) nor to guanidine hydrochloride (GHC1) and grew in cells previously treated with bromodeoxyuridine (BDUR). These results suggest the presence of agents resembling enteroviruses and enveloped viruses. Further studies for the characterization of such agents need to be performed.
Inhibitors of DNA polymerase alpha (aphidicolin, phosphonoacetic acid, phosphonoformic acid) efficiently inhibit initiator-induced amplification of SV40 DNA sequences in the SV40-transformed Chinese hamster cell line C0631. Amplification is also inhibited by various protease inhibitors (antipain, leupeptin, aprotinin, alpha-I-antitrypsin, epsilon-amino-caproic acid, soy-bean protease inhibitor), by the non-initiating but DNA-damaging agent caffeine, and by sodium butyrate, which inhibits DNA synthesis by histone modification. In contrast, an inhibitor of topoisomerase II, nalidixic acid, enhances amplification when applied simultaneously with initiating treatment. This latter compound does not induce amplification when applied without initiator. Cycloheximide induces DNA amplification in the same way as chemical and physical carcinogens. This amplification can still be observed when protein synthesis is completely blocked. The data suggest a complex mechanism of selective DNA amplification. The possible involvement of proteases leading to a functional modification of DNA polymerase alpha is discussed.
Results: DEV UL15 consists of two exons with a 3.5 kilobases (kb) inron and transcribes into two transcripts: the full-length UL15 and an N-terminally truncated UL15.5. The 2.9 kb UL15 transcript encodes a protein of 739 amino acids with an approximate molecular mass of 82 kiloDaltons (kDa), whereas the UL15.5 transcript is 1.3 kb in length, containing a putative 888 base pairs (bp) ORF that encodes a 32 kDa product. We also demonstrated that UL15 gene belonged to the late kinetic class as its expression was sensitive to cycloheximide and phosphonoacetic acid. UL15 is highly conserved within the Herpesviridae, and contains Walker A and B motifs homologous to the catalytic subunit of the bacteriophage terminase as revealed by sequence analysis. Phylogenetic tree constructed with the amino acid sequences of 23 herpesvirus UL15 homologues suggests a close relationship of DEV to the Mardivirus genus within the Alphaherpesvirinae. Further, the UL15 and UL15.5 proteins can be detected in the infected cell lysate but not in the sucrose density gradient-purified virion when reacting with the antiserum against UL15. Within the CEF cells, the UL15 and/or UL15.5 localize(s) in the cytoplasm at 6 h post infection (h p. i.) and mainly in the nucleus at 12 h p. i. and at 24 h p. i., while accumulate(s) in the cytoplasm in the absence of any other viral protein.
Abstract A virus-specified thymidine kinase appears to be a general requirement for herpes virus susceptibility to the antiviral effect of acyclovir. Surprisingly, mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV), which does not encode for a thymidine kinase, is exquisitely sensitive to the drug both in vitro and in vivo . The drug is active against the virus in the absence of a cellular thymidine kinase and the antiviral activity is not diminished in the presence of excess thymidine or a variety of nucleosides and deoxynucleosides. Thus, a thymidine phosphorylation pathway is not required for the drug's activation in this infection. The enzyme system responsible for phosphorylation of the drug has not been identified. Mouse cytomegalovirus mutants resistant to the drug have been isolated, indicating that the antiMCMV effect results from selective inhibition of viral replication rather than indirectly through toxicity to the host cell. Eight resistant mutants appear to be in the same complementation group and seven of the mutants demonstrate coresistance to phosphonoacetic acid, a marker for the DNA polymerase locus of herpes viruses. The evidence to date indicates that the MCMV DNA polymerase is the final site of action of the drug. Investigations of the antiMCMV activity of acyclovir should provide insights into the antiviral effects of this drug and other nucleoside analogs in other herpes virus infections in which the virus does not code for a thymidine kinase (for example, human cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus).
By constructing crosses involving the genes coding for the enzyme deoxypyrimidine kinase and for resistance to the drug phosphonoacetic acid, it has been possible both to extend the genetic analysis of HSV-1 such that the eight possible progeny genotypes which arise from a three-factor cross can be identified and also to precisely locate the gene for the plaque-morphology marker syn, the gene for deoxypyrimidine kinase dPYK and the gene for resistance to phosphonoacetic acid PAAr.
The complete nucleotide sequence of the short region, made up of a unique segment (Us; 6.5 kb) bracketed by a pair of inverted repeat sequences (IR; 12.8 kb each), of the equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) genome has been determined recently in our laboratory. Analysis of the IR segment revealed a major open reading frame (ORF) designated IR4. The IR4 ORF exhibits significant homology to the immediate-early gene US1 (ICP22) of herpes simplex virus type 1 and to the ICP22 homologs of varicella-zoster virus (ORF63), pseudorabies virus (RSp40), and equine herpesvirus 4 (ORF4). The IR4 ORF is located entirely within each of the inverted repeat sequences (nucleotides [nt] 7918 to 9327) and has the potential to encode a polypeptide of 469 amino acids (49,890 Da). Within the IR4 ORF are two reiterated sequences: a 7-nt sequence tandemly repeated 17 times and a 25-nt sequence tandemly repeated 13 times. Nucleotide sequence analyses of IR4 also revealed several potential cis-regulatory sequences, two TATA sequences separated by 287 nt, an in-frame translation initiation codon following each TATA sequence, and a single polyadenylation site. To address the nature of the mRNA species encoded by IR4, we used Northern (RNA) blot and S1 nuclease analyses. RNA mapping data revealed that IR4 has two promoters that are regulated differentially during a lytic infection. A 1.4-kb mRNA appears initially at 2 h postinfection and is an early transcript since its synthesis is not affected by the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of EHV-1 DNA replication. In contrast, a 1.7-kb mRNA appears at later times postinfection and is designated as a gamma-1 transcript, since its synthesis is significantly reduced by phosphonoacetic acid. These IR4-specific mRNAs are 3' coterminal, have unique 5' termini, and would code for in-frame, overlapping, carboxy-coterminal proteins of 293 and 469 amino acids, respectively. Interestingly, the site of homologous recombination to generate the genome of EHV-1 defective interfering particles that initiate persistent infection occurs between nt 3244 and 3251 of UL3 (ICP27 homolog) and nt 9027 and 9034 of IR4 (ICP22 homolog). Thus, this recombination event would generate a unique ORF that would encode a potential protein whose amino end was derived from the N-terminal 193 amino acids of the ICP22 homolog and whose carboxyl end was derived from the C-terminal 68 amino acids of the ICP27 homolog.
The protein products of 11 viral genomic loci cooperate in a transient cotransfection assay to mediate lytic-phase DNA replication of oriLyt, the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) origin of replication. Six of these genes have homology with the well-characterized herpes simplex virus replication genes and encode core replication machinery proteins that are typically essential for DNA synthesis. The remaining five HCMV gene loci, initially referred to as auxiliary components, include several known immediate-early (IE) transcriptional regulatory proteins as well as genes encoding functionally uncharacterized polypeptides. Some or all of the auxiliary components may be necessary in trans to replicate the HCMV oriLyt only because they are required for efficient expression or transactivation of the native early promoters and 3' processing elements included in the genomic clones. Therefore, we reassessed the requirements for the auxiliary components by adding constitutive heterologous promoters and control signals to the coding regions and carrying out transient DpnI replication assays in cotransfected Vero cells. The results revealed that in the presence of the UL69 posttranscriptional activator and the remaining auxiliary polypeptides, UL84 was the only auxiliary component that could not be omitted to obtain oriLyt-dependent DNA replication. Nevertheless, in human diploid fibroblasts, some additional auxiliary loci as well as UL84 were critical. There was also an obligatory requirement for UL84, in cooperation with two other auxiliary factors, UL112-113 and IE2, and the core machinery, to constitute the minimal HCMV proteins necessary to direct oriLyt-dependent DNA amplification. However, the Epstein-Barr virus core replication genes could substitute for the HCMV core genes, and in these circumstances, UL84 alone directed amplification of HCMV oriLyt. Moreover, there was also an absolute requirement for UL84 along with the core and other auxiliary factors for the formation of intranuclear replication compartments as assayed by immunofluorescence in transient DNA cotransfection assays. These compartments were typical of those associated with active viral DNA replication in HCMV-infected cells, they incorporated pulse-labeled bromodeoxyuridine, and their formation was both phosphonoacetic acid sensitive and oriLyt dependent. These results demonstrate that UL84 is obligatory for both intranuclear replication compartment formation and origin-dependent DNA amplification and suggest that it is a key viral component in promoting the initiation of HCMV oriLyt-directed DNA replication.
Transcription factors of the NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells) family are expressed in most immune system cells and in a range of other cell types. Signaling through NFAT is implicated in the regulation of transcription for the immune response and other processes, including differentiation and apoptosis. NFAT normally resides in the cytoplasm, and a key aspect of the NFAT activation pathway is the regulation of its nuclear import by the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin. In a cell line stably expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-NFAT, this import can be triggered by elevation of intracellular calcium and visualized in live cells. Here we show that the inducible nuclear import of GFP-NFAT is efficiently blocked at early stages of herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. This is a specific effect, since we observed abundant nuclear accumulation of a test viral protein and no impediment to general nuclear localization signal-dependent nuclear import and retention in infected cells. We show that virus binding at the cell surface is not itself sufficient to inhibit the signaling that induces NFAT nuclear translocation. Since the block occurs following infection in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid but not cycloheximide, we infer that the entry of the virion and early gene transcription are required but the effect is independent of DNA replication or late virus gene expression. A consequence of the block to GFP-NFAT import is a reduction in NFAT-dependent transcriptional activation from the interleukin-2 promoter in infected cells. This HSV-mediated repression of the NFAT pathway may constitute an immune evasion strategy or subversion of other NFAT-dependent cellular processes to promote viral replication.
Orotate phosphoribosyltransferases (OPRT) catalyze the formation of orotidine 5'-monophosphate (OMP) from a-D-phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) and orotate, an essential step in the de novo biosynthesis of pyrimidines. Pyrimidine de novo biosynthesis is required in Plasmodium falciparum, and thus OPRT of the parasite (PfOPRT) is a target for antimalarial drugs. De novo biosynthesis of pyrimidines is also a feature of rapidly proliferating cancer cells. Human OPRT (HsOPRT) is therefore a target for neoplastic and autoimmune diseases. One approach to the inhibition of OPRTs is through analogues that mimic the transition states of PfOPRT and HsOPRT. The transition state structures of these OPRTs were analyzed by kinetic isotope effects (KIEs), substrate specificity, and computational chemistry. With phosphonoacetic acid (PA), an analogue of pyrophosphate, the intrinsic KIEs of [1'- 14 C], [1, 3- 15 N 2 ], [3- 15 N], [1'- 3 H], [2'- 3 H], [4'- 3 H], and [5'- 3 H 2 ] are 1.034, 1.028, 0.997, 1.261, 1.116, 0.974, and 1.013 for PfOPRT and 1.035, 1.025, 0.993, 1.199, 1.129, 0.962, and 1.019 for HsOPRT, respectively. Transition state structures of PfOPRT and HsOPRT were determined computationally by matching the calculated and intrinsic KIEs. The enzymes form late associative D N *A N ‡ transition states with complete orotate loss and partially associative nucleophile. The C1'-O PA distances are approximately 2.1 A at these transition states. The modest [1'- 14 C] KIEs and large [1'- 3 H] KIEs are characteristic of D N *A N ‡ transition states. The large [2'- 3 H] KIEs indicate a ribosyl 2'-C-endo conformation at the transition states. p-Nitrophenyl β-D-ribose 5'-phosphate is a poor substrate of P/OPRT and HsOPRT but is a nanomolar inhibitor, supporting a reaction coordinate with strong leaving group activation.
SK&F 21681 (3,10-dimethyl-10-H-s-triazolo[4',3':2,3]-as-triazino-[ 5,6-b]indole) is an inhibitor of the growth of herpes simplex viruses types 1 and 2 at a concentration of 60 micrograms/ml. It inhibits the synthesis of the viral DNA and the formation of virus particles, although the viral polypeptide synthesis is not significantly affected by this compound. Mutants of herpes simplex viruses types 1 and 2 which are able to grow in the presence of SK&F 21681 were isolated. They induced normal levels of thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase activities in the infected cells and did not show resistance to either 9-[2-hydroxyethoxymethyl] guanine or phosphonoacetic acid.
The Us9 gene is highly conserved among the alphaherpesviruses sequenced to date, yet its function remains unknown. In this report, we demonstrate that the pseudorabies virus (PRV) Us9 protein is present in infected cell lysates as several phosphorylated polypeptides ranging from 17 to 20 kDa. Synthesis is first detected at 6 h postinfection and is sensitive to the DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Unlike the herpes simplex virus type 1 Us9 homolog, which was reported to be associated with nucleocapsids in the nuclei of infected cells (M. C. Frame, D. J. McGeoch, F. J. Rixon, A. C. Orr, and H. S. Marsden, Virology 150:321–332, 1986), PRV Us9 localizes to the secretory pathway (predominately to the Golgi apparatus) and not to the nucleus. By fusing the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) reporter molecule to the carboxy terminus of Us9, we demonstrated that Us9 not only is capable of targeting a Us9-EGFP fusion protein to the Golgi compartment but also is able to direct efficient incorporation of such chimeric molecules into infectious viral particles. Moreover, through protease digestion experiments with Us9-EGFP-containing viral particles, we demonstrated that the Us9 protein is inserted into the viral envelope as a type II, tail-anchored membrane protein.
AMP and NaF each taken separately were shown to activate DNA polymerization catalyzed by Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I by means of interaction of AMP or NaF with 3'----5'-exonuclease center of the enzyme. In the presence of NaF which is a selective inhibitor of 3'----5'-exonuclease center, AMP is an inhibitor of polymerization competitive with respect to dATP. Ki values and the pattern of inhibition with respect to dATP were determined for AMP, ADP, ATP, carboxymethylphosphonyl-5'-AMP, Pi, PPi, PPPi, methylenediphosphonic acid and its ethylated esters, phosphonoformic acid, phosphonoacetic acid and its ethylated esters as well as for some bicarbonic acids in the reactions of DNA polymerization catalyzed by Klenow fragment of DNA polymerase I (in the presence of NaF) and DNA polymerase alpha from human placenta in the presence of poly(dT) template and r(pA)10 primer. All nucleotides and their analogs were found to be capable of competing with dATP for the active center of the enzyme. Most of the analogs of PPi and phosphonoacetic acid are inhibitors of Klenow fragment competitive with respect to dATP. Nowever these analogs display a mixed-type inhibition in the case of human DNA polymerase alpha. We postulated a similar mechanism of interaction for dNTP with both DNA-polymerases. It is suggested that each phosphate group of PPi makes equal contribution to the interaction with DNA polymerases and that the distance between the phosphate groups is important for this interaction. beta-phosphate of NTP or dNTP is suggested to make negligible contribution to the efficiency of the formation of enzyme complexes with dNTP. beta-phosphate is likely to be an essential point of PPi interaction with the active center of proteins during the cleavage of the alpha-beta-phosphodiester bond of dNTP in the reaction of DNA polymerization.
Abstract A polyaspartic acid derivative (PASP-SEA-ASP) was synthesized from polysuccinimide with 2-aminoethanesulfonic acid and aspartic acid. PASP-SEA-ASP achieved a better corrosion inhibition rate for A3 carbon steel in seawater compared with polyaspartic acid (49% cf. 45% at the dosage of 100 mg/L). The development of a composite inhibitor (a mixture of PASP-SEA-ASP, zinc sulfate, 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA) and hexadecylldimethyl (2-sulfite) ethyl ammonium on a mass ratio of 15:3:6:1, respectively) led to a significantly enhanced corrosion inhibition effect, achieving an inhibition rate of 97%. The mass ratio of the composite inhibitor could be adjusted to achieve the desired corrosion inhibition rate for seawater with varying characteristics. PASP-SEA-ASP also showed excellent scale inhibition properties for seawater, with a scale inhibition rate of 100% achieved with a dosage of 14 mg/L. This study demonstrated the potential of PASP-SEA-ASP to inhibit both corrosion and scale formation in domestic and industrial utilization of seawater such as cooling systems and thermal desalination processes.
A luciferase reporter system with stably transfected oriP plasmids in Akata Burkitt's lymphoma cells provides a quantitative assay for the BZLF1 Zp promoter in response to B-cell receptor (BCR) activation by cross-linking with anti-immunoglobulin. In this system, detailed kinetic studies of promoter activity are possible. Previously reported promoter elements upstream of −221 from the transcription start and the ZIIR sequence had little effect on the Zp promoter, but the ZI and ZIIIA elements were essential for early activation. The ZIIIB element mediates autoactivation. Mutation of the ZV repressor sequence greatly increased the induction of the promoter but did not make it constitutively active. Zp transcription in response to BCR cross-linking declined after a few hours; this decline was reduced and delayed by acyclovir or phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that viral DNA replication or a late viral gene can play a role in the switch off of the Zp promoter. Late expression of the LMP1 protein may account for this.
Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2), strain YS-4 C-1, isolated by plaque cloning from a clinical isolate was found to be resistant to acyclovir (ACV; acycloguanosine) in vitro. It was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid and 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine. Thymidine kinase (TK) activity of YS-4 C-1 was less than 1% of that of other strains from the same clinical source. However, thymidine plaque autoradiography showed that YS-4 C-1 was not completely deficient in TK activity. YS-4 C-1 showed high virulence for mice like other HSV-2 strains which were sensitive to ACV. YS-4 C-1 was able to establish latent infection in mice. Virus isolated from the brain of a mouse died after being inoculated with YS-4 C-1 was also resistant to ACV. ACV was not effective in mice inoculated with YS-4 C-1. This study shows that not all ACV-resistant strains are avirulent for mice.
A novel concept in eukaryotic signal transduction is the use of nutrient transporters and closely related proteins as nutrient sensors. The action mechanism of these “transceptors” is unclear. The Pho84 phosphate transceptor in yeast transports phosphate and mediates rapid phosphate activation of the protein kinase A (PKA) pathway during growth induction. We have now identified several phosphate-containing compounds that act as nontransported signaling agonists of Pho84. This indicates that signaling does not require complete transport of the substrate. For the nontransported agonist glycerol-3-phosphate (Gly3P), we show that it is transported by two other carriers, Git1 and Pho91, without triggering signaling. Gly3P is a competitive inhibitor of transport through Pho84, indicating direct interaction with its phosphate-binding site. We also identified phosphonoacetic acid as a competitive inhibitor of transport without agonist function for signaling. This indicates that binding of a compound into the phosphate-binding site of Pho84 is not enough to trigger signaling. Apparently, signaling requires a specific conformational change that may be part of, but does not require, the complete transport cycle. Using Substituted Cysteine Accessibility Method (SCAM) we identified Phe160 in TMD IV and Val392 in TMD VIII as residues exposed with their side chain into the phosphate-binding site of Pho84. Inhibition of both transport and signaling by covalent modification of Pho84F160C or Pho84V392C showed that the same binding site is used for transport of phosphate and for signaling with both phosphate and Gly3P. Our results provide to the best of our knowledge the first insight into the molecular mechanism of a phosphate transceptor.
Abstract A DNA-relaxing enzyme was found to copurify along with herpes simplex virus type I (HSV-1)-induced DNA polymerase throughout a multistep purification scheme. Both the enzymes had similar sedimentation velocity, required high ionic strength for optimal enzymatic activities and showed time dependence of reaction. The DNA-relaxing enzyme however, differed from the HSV-1 DNA polymerase in its requirement for higher Mg 2+ concentration, rATP and much broader pH dependence. Furthermore, phosphonoacetic acid, a potent inhibitor of HSV-1 DNA polymerase did not influence the DNA-relaxing activity even at a much higher concentration. On the other hand, the DNA-relaxing enzyme associated with the DNA polymerase may be specified by HSV-1 since IgG fraction of rabbit antisera against the virus-infected cells but not against the mock-infected cells strongly inhibited both the enzymatic activities. Thus, HSV-1-induced DNA polymerase which is known to be associated with a 3′ to 5′ exonuclease may also be associated with yet another enzymatic activity involved in DNA metabolism.
Abstract Cyclodimerization of two symmetrical but dissimilar fragments provides a facile route to macrocyclic dilactones containing conjugated polyolefins. Methods have been developed for the stereoselective synthesis of cis -2,4,6-triacetoxyheptanedial and the simple acylation of alcohols with dimethyl phosphonoacetic acid.
A luciferase reporter system with stably transfected oriP plasmids in Akata Burkitt's lymphoma cells provides a quantitative assay for the BZLF1 Zp promoter in response to B-cell receptor (BCR) activation by cross-linking with anti-immunoglobulin. In this system, detailed kinetic studies of promoter activity are possible. Previously reported promoter elements upstream of ؊221 from the transcription start and the ZIIR sequence had little effect on the Zp promoter, but the ZI and ZIIIA elements were essential for early activation. The ZIIIB element mediates autoactivation. Mutation of the ZV repressor sequence greatly increased the induction of the promoter but did not make it constitutively active. Zp transcription in response to BCR cross-linking declined after a few hours; this decline was reduced and delayed by acyclovir or phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that viral DNA replication or a late viral gene can play a role in the switch off of the Zp promoter. Late expression of the LMP1 protein may account for this.
In the rabbit 5% phosphonoacetic acid ointment suppressed herpetic keratitis as well as 0-5% idoxuridine ointment. After 5 days of treatment quantitative virus titres showed that phosphonoacetic acid was superior to idoxuridine in the inhibition of herpes virus replication. Phosphonoacetic acid was found to be nontoxic to the eye in both clinical and histopathological studies. Recent reports suggest that the mechanism of action of phosphonoacetic acid appears to be the blocking of the virus DNA polymerase, which is essential for the synthesis of herpes virus DNA.
31 P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was used to monitor the response of oil palm ( Elaeis guineensis ) and carrot ( Daucus carota ) cell suspensions to changes in the external pH. An airlift system was used to oxygenate the cells during the NMR measurements and a protocol was developed to enable a constant external pH to be maintained in the suspension when required. Phosphonoacetic acid was used as an external pH marker and the intracellular pH values were measured from the chemical shifts of the cytoplasmic and vacuolar orthophosphate resonances. In contrast to earlier studies the cytoplasmic pH was independent of the external pH over the range 5.5 to 8.0 and it was only below pH 5.5 that the cytoplasmic pH varied, falling at a rate of 0.12 pH unit per external unit. Loss of pH control was observed in response to sudden increases in external pH with the response of the cells depending on the conditions imposed. A notable feature of the recovery from these treatments was the transient acidification of the cytoplasm that occurred in a fraction of the cells and overshoot phenomena of this kind provided direct evidence for the time dependence of the regulatory mechanisms.
Polyphosphate esters were synthesized by the catalytic solution polycondensation of biphenols with dichlorophosphoric acid ethyl ester,dichlorophosphonoformic acid ethyl ester or dichlorophosphonoacetic acid ethyl ester,respectively.The polypliosphate esters obtained were characterized by IR,￣1H NMR and elementary analysis.The in vitro drug release of 5-fluorouracil was studied in pH 7.4 phosphate buffer solution at 37℃.
Inoue-Melnick virus (IMV) was isolated directly from all of the seven human colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues studied, whereas IMV was not isolated from five human stomach carcinoma tissues. Seven isolates from the Japanese colorectal carcinoma tissues were identified as type 1 IMV by the neutralization test and were sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, a growth inhibitor of IMV. Furthermore, type 1 IMV-antibody was detected in six of seven sera of the patients whose colorectal carcinoma tissues were positive for virus isolation. In contrast, IMV-antibody was not detected in the five sera of the patients whose stomach carcinoma tissues were tested and found negative for IMV.
The genome of herpes simplex virus type 1 contains a large number of recognition sites for eucaryotic DNA type II topoisomerase. Topoisomerase II sites were identified by means of the consensus sequence described previously (J.R. Spitzner and M.T. Muller, Nucleic Acids Res. 16:5553-5556, 1988) and then confirmed by sequencing DNA cleavages introduced by purified topoisomerase II. In vivo, host topoisomerase II also introduced double-stranded DNA breaks in the viral genome at sites predicted by the consensus sequence. Host topoisomerase II acted on all immediate-early genes as well as on genes from other temporal classes; however, cleavages were not detected until 4 to 5 h postinfection and were most intense at 10 h postinfection. Topoisomerase II cleavages were not detected when viral DNA replication was prevented with phosphonoacetic acid. These data indicate that, although progeny viral genomes are acted upon by host topoisomerase II, this enzyme either does not act on parental viral genomes before DNA replication or acts on them with such low efficiency that cleavages are beyond our limit of detection. The findings suggest that host topoisomerase II is involved in aspects of viral replication at late times in the infectious cycle.
The addition of iododeoxyuridine to P3HR-I cell cultures led to a large increase in both Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced DNA polymerase activity and early antigen-positive cells. This EBV-induced DNA polymerase was separated from the cellular alpha- and beta-polymerases by sequential column chromatography on Sepharose 6B, DEAE-cellulose, and phosphocellulose, resulting in partial purification of about 320-fold. The partially purified-EBV DNA polymerase could be distinguished from the cellular DNA polymerases by its activation by salts, its catalytic properties, and its degree of sensitivity to N-ethylmaleimide, phosphonoacetic acid, araATP, and araCTP. The viral polymerase showed properteis similar to those reported for other herpesvirus DNA polymerases. The enzyme exhibited optimal activity for copying activated calf DNA in the presence of 50 mH (NH4)2SO4 and was resistant to 150 mM (NH4)2SO4. It utilized with high efficiency template-primer poly(dC)-oligo(dG)12-18 or poly(dA)-oligo(dT)12-18, but failed to copy poly(rA)-oligo(dT)10 and oligo(dT)10, indicating that this enzyme has characters distinct from DNA polymerase gamma, reverse transcriptase, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase. Phosphonacetic acid inhibited not only EBV DNA polymerase, but also, to a lesser degree, the cellular polymerase alpha. AraATP did not severely inhibit viral activity, whereas the polymerase alpha was inhibited most effectively. Both EBV polymerase and polymerase alpha were inhibited at a comparable level by araCTP.
Two open reading frames (ORFs) encoded at the inverted repeat unique short (Us) junction of the Short (S) region of the equine herpesvirus type 1 genome were identified by DNA sequencing of a 2876 base pair (bp) genomic segment, and transcripts encoding these ORFs were characterized by Northern blot, S1 nuclease, and primer extension analyses. These studies also established the size of each inverted repeat to be 12,768 nucleotides (nts). The IR6 ORF (816 bp), mapping at nts 12,317-11,502 of the S region, is the last gene completely encoded within each inverted repeat and encodes a predicted 30.1-kDa protein of 272 amino acids, which does not exhibit homology to other alphaherpesvirus proteins. IR6 is expressed as an early transcript of 1.2 kb which is detected initially at 1.5 hr p.i. and up to 12 hr p.i. The transcription initiation and termination sites of IR6 were mapped by primer extension and S1 nuclease analyses to nts 12,465 and 11,408, respectively. The first ORF encoded within the Us segment (909 bp; EUS1), mapping at nts 13,397-12,489, encodes a predicted 33.5-kDa protein of 303 amino acids that exhibits 29% identity to the US2 protein of herpes simplex virus 1. EUS1 is expressed as a 2.3-kb mRNA of the gamma-1 class, as its synthesis begins prior to viral DNA replication at 4 hr p.i. but is retarded by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA replication. The Tci and Tct sites of EUS1 were mapped by S1 nuclease analyses to nts 13,637 and 11,408, respectively. Interestingly, this termination site is also utilized by three late mRNAs of 5.8, 3.8, and 1.7 kb which originate within the Us and overlap the IR6 mRNA encoded in the terminal inverted repeat (TR) of the prototype genomic isomer. EUS1 is 3' coterminal with IR6 in the inverted repeat, whereas, the 5.8, 3.8, and 1.7 kb transcripts are 3' coterminal with IR6 of the TR.
Herpes simplex virus encodes proteins, such as DNA polymerase, that are essential for its replication and proteins, such as thymidine kinase, that are not essential for replication in cell culture, but are important for pathogenesis in animal models. However, certain mutations affecting these proteins exert little or no effect on replication or pathogenesis. We tested the effects of combining two such mutations--one that alters DNA polymerase and one that decreases but does not abolish thymidine kinase activity--on replication in cultured cells and on acute and latent infections in mice. The double mutant replicated similarly to the single mutants and wild-type virus both in cell culture and acutely in the mouse eye. However, it was severely impaired for acute replication in trigeminal ganglia and for reactivatable latent infections. This impairment depended upon the polymerase mutation. Similarly, although Ro 31-5140, a thymidine kinase inhibitor, did not potentiate the antiviral effects of phosphonoacetic acid, a polymerase inhibitor, in cell culture, the two drugs in combination substantially inhibited viral reactivation from latency at concentrations that had little or no effect when used singly. These synergistic effects may have implications for viral functions during pathogenesis and for antiviral chemotherapy.
Cutaneous herpesvirus infection of guinea pigs has been evaluated as a model for testing antiviral compounds. Six infected sites on each animal can be used independently for local treatment. The severity of the infection has been graded in a score system. The cumulative scores during infection and the time to healing can be used to determine antiviral effects. The effects of adenine arabinoside, cytosine arabinoside, iododeoxyuridine, ribavirin and phosphonoacetic acid on the cutaneous infection was compared. Phosphonoacetic acid was the only compound with a good therapeutic activity against herpesvirus infection, causing a reduction of both the cumulative score and the time to healing. Phosphonoacetic acid was skin irritating at 2 per cent, but at 1 per cent, which still had a good therapeutic activity, skin irritation was seen only occasionally.
The invention relates to a novel quinazoline compound and a method for preparing a quinazoline crotyl compound for treating or preventing various indications relating to EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) and HER (HER Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor)2 kinase functions. The method comprises the following steps: firstly, enabling a raw material with an amino group to react with diethylphosphonoacetic acid and N,N'-carbonyldiiazole in a solvent at the temperature of 25 to 50DEG C, and converting the amino group in the raw material into diethylacetoacetamido; secondly, enabling an intermediate to react with N,N'-disubstituted acetaldehyde in the solvent at the temperature of 30DEG C below zero and 20DEG C below zero in the presence of alkaline matters to generate a target compound. According to the method, the target product with the purity greater than 98 percent can be obtained by adopting simple route and simple post treatment; the total yield of the target product is as high as 74 percent; besides, by means of the method disclosed by the invention, kilogram-target products can be successfully prepared, and batch production is easily realized.
Recently, we found a C-P bond cleavage enzyme in cell extracts of Enterobacter aerogenes IFO 12010 (15). The enzyme in the bacterium could cleave the C-P bond in various alkyl-and phenylphosphonic acids (such as methylphosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and phenylphosphonic acid) and was shown to be distinct from the enzyme phosphonatase, which hydrolyzes the C-P bond in phosphonoacetaldehyde (9-11).
In order to characterize the properties of the enzyme and elucidate the C-P bond cleavage mechanism, we attempted to purify the C-P bond cleavage enzyme from E. aerogenes IFO 12010. The cells were aerobically grown on a medium [0.5% glucose, 0.1% (NH4)2SO4, 0.01% MgSO4 7H20, 0.02% yeast extract (Pi-free), and 0.4% phosphonoacetic acid (pH 7.2)] at 30°C for 20 h. The cells (38 g [wet weight]) from a 15-liter culture were suspended in 80 ml of 10 mM Tris hydrochloride buffer (pH 7.5) containing 10 mM MgCl2 and 0.2 mM dithiothreitol (buffer A); cell extract was prepared as described previously (15). Pi-free yeast extract was prepared as described previously (15). Phosphonic acids were used after filtration with a membrane filter (Millipore Corp., Bedford, Mass.), and glasswear was rinsed with nitric acid before use.
The UL24 gene of herpes simplex virus type 1 is conserved across many herpesviruses, but its protein product has not been identified. We expressed the UL24 gene in insect cells from a recombinant baculovirus and used the resulting protein to raise a rat antiserum. In immunoblotting experiments, this antiserum recognized a 30-kDa protein in lysates from infected cells. The identity of this species as UL24 was confirmed by using a virus encoding a truncated form of UL24. On the basis of biochemical fractionation of infected cells, UL24 appeared to be predominantly nucleus associated, especially at later times in infection. Although certain UL24 transcripts exhibit early kinetics, UL24 protein accumulated at later times in infection and levels were decreased sixfold in the presence of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid; thus, UL24 was expressed with leaky-late kinetics. The entire UL24 open reading frame is encoded by mRNAs with two different 5' ends. A mutation that eliminates the more abundant transcripts that originate at the first transcription start site resulted in a 10-fold reduction in the level of UL24 expressed but did not eliminate expression. Thus, the less abundant transcripts originating at the second transcription start site can evidently be translated, although transcripts originating at the first start site appear to be the major contributors to the expression of UL24. We conclude that UL24 is a bona fide herpes simplex virus type 1 protein that associates primarily with nuclei and whose expression is regulated at multiple levels.
Abstract Phosphonoacetic acid (100 μg/ml) inhibited EBV DNA replication in superinfected Raji cells but had little effect either on replication of latent EBV DNA or on cellular DNA synthesis. This differential effect of the chemical on EBV DNA replication subsequently was used to determine the number of EBV genomes per cell in productive P3 HRI cells.
Heterometallic carboxyphosphonates UO₂2+/Ln3+ have been prepared from the hydrothermal reaction of uranyl nitrate, lanthanide nitrate (Ln = Sm, Tb, Er, Yb), and phosphonoacetic acid (H₃PPA). Compound 1, (UO₂)₂(PPA)(HPPA)₂Sm(H₂O)·2H₂O (1) adopts a two-dimensional structure in which the UO₂2+ metal ions bind exclusively to the phosphonate moiety, whereas the Ln3+ ions are coordinated by both phosphonate and carboxylate functionalities. Luminescence studies of 1 show very bright visible and near-IR samarium(III)-centered emission upon direct excitation of the uranyl moiety. The Sm3+ emissive state exhibits a double-exponential decay with lifetimes of 67.2 ± 6.5 and 9.0 ± 1.3 μs as measured at 594 nm, after excitation at both 365 and 420 nm. No emission is observed in the region typical of the uranyl cation, indicating that all energy is either transferred to the Sm3+ center or lost to nonradiative processes. Herein we report the synthesis, crystal structure, and luminescent behavior of 1, as well as those of the isostructural terbium, erbium, and ytterbium analogues.
As the pseudorabies virus (PrV) genome is collinear with the herpes simplex virus type 1 genome, the ICP0 homologue of PrV was cloned and its nucleotide sequence was determined. The protein encoded by the gene comprises 409 amino acids and has identities of 43.5, 36.7 and 43.5% with the immediate-early gene ICP0 of herpes simplex virus 1, gene 61 of varicella-zoster virus and ORF63 of equine herpesvirus 1, respectively. The PrV ICP0 homologue contains a putative zinc finger motif which is also present in herpes simplex virus 1, varicella-zoster virus and equine herpesvirus 1. However, northern blot analysis showed that the PrV ICP0 homologous transcript was synthesized in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid but not cycloheximide. These characteristics indicate that PrV ICP0 homologous gene has the potential to be a transcription factor but expresses at an early stage of PrV replication.
The UL24 gene of herpes simplex virus type 1 is conserved across many herpesviruses, but its protein product has not been identified. We expressed the UL24 gene in insect cells from a recombinant baculovirus and used the resulting protein to raise a rat antiserum. In immunoblotting experiments, this antiserum recognized a 30-kDa protein in lysates from infected cells. The identity of this species as UL24 was confirmed by using a virus encoding a truncated form of UL24. On the basis of biochemical fractionation of infected cells, UL24 appeared to be predominantly nucleus associated, especially at later times in infection. Although certain UL24 transcripts exhibit early kinetics, UL24 protein accumulated at later times in infection and levels were decreased sixfold in the presence of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid; thus, UL24 was expressed with leaky-late kinetics. The entire UL24 open reading frame is encoded by mRNAs with two different 5 ends. A mutation that eliminates the more abundant transcripts that originate at the first transcription start site resulted in a 10-fold reduction in the level of UL24 expressed but did not eliminate expression. Thus, the less abundant transcripts originating at the second transcription start site can evidently be translated, although transcripts originating at the first start site appear to be the major contributors to the expression of UL24. We conclude that UL24 is a bona fide herpes simplex virus type 1 protein that associates primarily with nuclei and whose expression is regulated at multiple levels.
Abstract An in situ ELISA was developed as an improved procedure over the plaque reduction assay for antiviral susceptibility testing of HCMV. Unlike the plaque reduction assay, the ELISA can be completed at 4–5 days post-infection. The effective dose (ED 50 ) of ganciclovir (GCV), acyclovir (ACV), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), or phosphonoformic acid (PFA), was determined using HCMV strain AD169. The resistance profiles of two laboratory-derived GCV-resistant mutants of HCMV strain AD169 and seven clinical isolates were determined using the ELISA. The ELISA results were confirmed by the plaque reduction assay. The ED 50 for GCV with the AD169 control ranged from 3.1 to 6.2 μM with a mean inhibitory concentration of 5.4 ± 1.4 μ M. Six of the clinical isolates were susceptible to GCV (ED 50 = 3.1–6.2 μ M). The seventh isolate had an ED 50 of 50 μM and was resistant to GCV. This ELISA assay is reproducible and relatively simple to perform. The ELISA endpoints are clearly determined and the assay works well with a variety of antiviral compounds.
Phosphonoformic acid (PFA) and its congener phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) are inhibitors of viral (and to a less extent mammalian) DNA polymerase. We selected mutants of S49 cells (a mouse T lymphoma line) resistant to 3mM phosphonoformic acid. These 11 lines had a range of growth rates, cell cycle distribution abnormalities, and concomitant resistance to the inhibitory effects of thymidine, acycloguanosine (acyclovir), aphidicolin, deoxyadenosine, and novobiocin. Most lines had normal to slightly elevated pools of ribonucleoside triphosphates and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates. However, one line (PFA 3-9) had a greatly elevated dCTP pool and increased CDP reducatase activity in permeabilized cells. This activity in the PFA 3-9 cells diminished to wild type control levels in the presence of phosphonoformic acid, while PFA greatly diminished wild type CDP reductase activity (see table). In addition, 4mM PFA diminished the dCTP pool in wild type and in PFA 3-9 cells at 8 hours. The reduced dCTP pool could be increased by exogenous deoxycytidine but this only marginally reversed PFA toxicity. These observations suggest that PFA is an inhibitor of mammalian ribonucleotide reductase and partial resistance to PFA can be effected by mutation to increased CDP reductase activity resulting in a large dCTP pool.
We have identified the herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) UL55 gene product using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against a recombinant 6 x His-UL55 fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli. The antiserum reacted specifically with a 23 kDa protein in HSV-2 186-infected cell lysates. The protein was not detectable in the presence of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Indirect immunofluorescence studies localized the UL55 protein within and at the periphery of the nucleus as discrete granules at late times post-infection, and nuclear fractionation studies showed that the protein was associated with the nuclear matrix of infected cells. Moreover, these discrete regions containing the UL55 protein were found to be adjacent to compartments, designated assemblons, containing the capsid protein ICP35. However, the UL55 protein was not detected in purified virions. These results suggest that the UL55 protein of HSV-2 may play an accessory role in virion assembly or maturation.
Purified nuclei, isolated from appropriately infected HeLa cells, are shown to synthesize large amounts of either herpes simplex virus (HSV) or vaccinia virus DNA in vitro. The rate of synthesis of DNA by nuclei from infected cells is up to 30 times higher than the synthesis of host DNA in vitro by nuclei isolated from uninfected HeLa cells. Thus HSV nuclei obtained from HSV-infected cells make DNA in vitro at a rate comparable to that seen in the intact, infected cell. Molecular hybridization studies showed that 80% of the DNA sequences synthesized in vitro by nuclei from herpesvirus-infected cells are herpesvirus specific. Vaccinia virus nuclei from vaccinia virus-infected cells, also produce comparable percentages of vaccinia virus-specific DNA sequences. Adenovirus nuclei from adenovirus 2-infected HeLa cells, which also synthesize viral DNA in vitro, have been included in this study. Synthesis of DNA by HSV or vaccinia virus nuclei is markedly inhibited by the corresponding viral-specific antisera. These antisera inhibit in a similar fashion the purified herpesvirus-induced or vaccinia virus-induced DNA polymerase isolated from infected cells. Phosphonoacetic acid, reported to be a specific inhibitor of herpesvirus formation and the herpesvirus-induced DNA polymerase, is equally effective as an inhibitor of HSV DNA synthesis in isolated nuclei in vitro. However, we also find phosphonoacetic acid to be an effective inhibitor of vaccinia virus nuclear DNA synthesis and the purified vaccinia virus-induced DNA polymerase. In addition, this compound shows significant inhibition of DNA synthesis in isolated nuclei obtained from adenovirus-infected or uninfected cells and is a potent inhibitor of HeLa cell DNA polymerase alpha.
We previously reported that a recombinant ICP27-null virus stimulated, but did not prevent, apoptosis in human HEp-2 cells during infection (M. Aubert and J. A. Blaho, J. Virol. 73:2803-2813, 1999). In the present study, we used a panel of 15 recombinant ICP27 mutant viruses to determine which features of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) replication are required for the apoptosis-inhibitory activity. Each virus was defined experimentally as either apoptotic, partially apoptotic, or nonapoptotic based on infected HEp-2 cell morphologies, percentages of infected cells with condensed chromatin, and patterns of specific cellular death factor processing. Viruses d27-1, d1-5, d1-2, M11, M15, M16, n504R, n406R, n263R, and n59R are apoptotic or partially apoptotic in HEp-2 cells and severely defective for growth in Vero cells. Viruses d2-3, d3-4, d4-5, d5-6, and d6-7 are nonapoptotic, demonstrating that ICP27 contains a large amino-terminal region, including its RGG box RNA binding domain, which is not essential for apoptosis prevention. Accumulations of viral TK, VP16, and gD but not gC, ICP22, or ICP4 proteins correlated with prevention of apoptosis during the replication of these viruses. Of the nonapoptotic viruses, d4-5 did not produce gC, indicating that accumulation of true late gene products is not necessary for the prevention process. Analyses of viral DNA synthesis in HEp-2 cells indicated that apoptosis prevention by HSV-1 requires that the infection proceeds to the stage in which viral DNA replication takes place. Infections performed in the presence of the drug phosphonoacetic acid confirmed that the process of viral DNA synthesis and the accumulation of true late (gamma(2)) proteins are not required for apoptosis prevention. Based on our results, we conclude that the accumulation of HSV-1 early (beta) and leaky-late (gamma(1)) proteins correlates with the prevention of apoptosis in infected HEp-2 cells.
Several drug-resistant herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) strains were obtained under the selective pressure of various antiherpetic drugs used alone or in combination. Their susceptibility to a wide range of antiviral compounds was determined. Strains selected under the pressure of brivudin (BVDU) or 1-β-D-arabinofuranosyl-(E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)uracil (BVaraU) alone were composed of two virus populations : (1) virus resistant to BVDU and BVaraU but not to acyclovir (ACV) or ganciclovir (GCV), which is suggestive of an alteration in the thymidylate kinase activity associated with the viral thymidine kinase (TK) (responsible for the phosphorylation of BVDU-monophosphate to BVDU-diphosphate); and (2) virus resistant to BVDU, BVaraU, ACV and GCV, which is indicative of an alteration in the viral TK activity that converts BVDU, BVaraU and other nucleoside analogues such as ACV and GCV to their monophosphate derivatives. Strains resistant to TK-dependent drugs (i.e. ACV, GCV, BVDU and BVaraU) as well as double-mutant strains with decreased sensitivity to both TK-dependent compounds and the pyrophosphate analogues foscarnet (PFA) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) (suggestive of mutations at the level of the DNA polymerase) were recovered under the selective pressure of ACV alone or in combination with BVDU or BVaraU. Combinations of BVDU or BVaraU with PFA or PAA led to strains resistant only to BVDU and BVaraU or double-mutant strains resistant to BVDU, BVaraU and the pyrophosphate analogues, but not to strains resistant to other TK-dependent drugs. Interestingly, strains resistant to ACV, BVDU, GCV and/or the pyrophosphate analogues PFA and PAA remained sensitive to the (S)-3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl (HPMP) derivatives of cytosine (HPMPC) and adenine (HPMPA).
We have used a novel method to activate the DNA damage S-phase checkpoint response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to slow lagging-strand DNA replication by exposing cells expressing a drug-sensitive DNA polymerase δ (L612M-DNA pol δ) to the inhibitory drug phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). PAA-treated pol3-L612M cells arrest as large-budded cells with a single nucleus in the bud neck. This arrest requires all of the components of the S-phase DNA damage checkpoint: Mec1, Rad9, the DNA damage clamp Ddc1-Rad17-Mec3, and the Rad24-dependent clamp loader, but does not depend on Mrc1, which acts as the signaling adapter for the replication checkpoint. In addition to the above components, a fully functional mismatch repair system, including Exo1, is required to activate the S-phase damage checkpoint and for cells to survive drug exposure. We propose that mismatch repair activity produces persisting single-stranded DNA gaps in PAA-treated pol3-L612M cells that are required to increase DNA damage above the threshold needed for checkpoint activation. Our studies have important implications for understanding how cells avoid inappropriate checkpoint activation because of normal discontinuities in lagging-strand replication and identify a role for mismatch repair in checkpoint activation that is needed to maintain genome integrity.
Confirmed observations of the inhibition of oncogenic viruses by phosphonoacetic acid led to preclinical trials in animal model systems. Circulating phosphonoacetic acid was detected in the blood of mouse, rabbit and monkey after oral or subcutaneous administration of the drug. Phosphonoacetic acid is quantified in blood, after removing proteins and lipids, as the trimethylsilylated derivative, by monitoring the intensity of the protonated molecular ion and also that of phosphonopropionic acid (internal standard) using chemical ionization mass spectrometry combined with gas chromatography. The detection limit is 20 ng ml-1 when 0.2 ml serum is analyzed. A dosage of 230 mg kg-1 day-1 by continuous infusion is proposed for therapeutic trials in monkeys. This dose is well tolerated and results in slowly increasing blood levels of phosphonoacetic acid which reach a maximum of approximately 50 microgram ml-1 in a four day infusion, and decrease to 2 microgram ml-1 24 h after termination.
We have identified the herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) UL55 gene product using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against a recombinant 6iHis-UL55 fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli. The antiserum reacted specifically with a 23 kDa protein in HSV-2 186-infected cell lysates. The protein was not detectable in the presence of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Indirect immunofluorescence studies localized the UL55 protein within and at the periphery of the nucleus as discrete granules at late
Purified nuclei, isolated from appropriately infected HeLa cells, are shown to synthesize large amounts of either herpes simplex virus (HSV) or vaccinia virus DNA in vitro. The rate of synthesis of DNA by nuclei from infected cells is up to 30 times higher than the synthesis of host DNA in vitro by nuclei isolated from uninfected HeLa cells. Thus HSV nuclei obtained from HSV-infected cells make DNA in vitro at a rate comparable to that seen in the intact, infected cell. Molecular hybridization studies showed that 80% of the DNA sequences synthesized in vitro by nuclei from herpesvirus-infected cells are herpesvirus specific. Vaccinia virus nuclei from vaccinia virus-infected cells, also produce comparable percentages of vaccinia virus-specific DNA sequences. Adenovirus nuclei from adenovirus 2-infected HeLa cells, which also synthesize viral DNA in vitro, have been included in this study. Synthesis of DNA by HSV or vaccinia virus nuclei is markedly inhibited by the corresponding viral-specific antisera. These antisera inhibit in a similar fashion the purified herpesvirus-induced or vaccinia virusinduced DNA polymerase isolated from infected cells. Phosphonoacetic acid, reported to be a specific inhibitor of herpesvirus formation and the herpesvirusinduced DNA polymerase, is equally effective as an inhibitor of HSV DNA synthesis in isolated nuclei in vitro. However, we also find phosphonoacetic acid to be an effective inhibitor of vaccinia virus nuclear DNA synthesis and the purified vaccinia virus-induced DNA polymerase. In 
aposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV)/human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) belongs to the gammaherpesvirus subfamily, which also includes Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV-68). KSHV is etiologically linked to the AIDS-associated malignancy Kaposi's sarcoma, as well as two rare lymphoproliferative disorders, primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) and multicentric Castleman's disease (MCD) (1). During the latent phase of infection, the KSHV genome is maintained as a circular episome in the nucleus (2), where only a few genes are transcribed as part of the latency program (3, 4). The lytic phase begins with the induction of immediate early (IE) genes, which in turn promotes the expression of early (E) genes (5). The transcription of late genes depends on lytic replication of viral DNA, a process carried out by the core DNA replication machinery composed of KSHV-encoded proteins (6). Chemical inhibitors of the herpesvirus-encoded DNA polymerase (e.g., phosphonoacetic acid [PAA]) efficiently prevent expression of late genes but do not affect genes of the other kinetic classes (5).
Bacteriophage phi 29 DNA polymerase is sensitive to aphidicolin (APH). DNA polymerase of the APH-resistant mutant, APHr71, was more sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid and butylphenyldeoxyguanosine 5'triphosphate than the wild type. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed a single transition of G at nucleotide 562 to A in the DNA polymerase gene of APHr71, indicating that APHr71 DNA polymerase (572 residues) had a single amino acid substitution from glycine at residue 188 to serine. The results suggest that the site and the neighboring conserved segment of phi 29 DNA polymerase constitute a structure interacting with deoxynucleotides, pyrophosphate, and APH.
An RNAase-sensitive DNA polymerase from rat cells transformed by avian sarcoma virus has been characterized. The enzyme requires RNA for its activity, as shown by its sensitivity to RNAase with endogenous as well as exogenous DNA templates. This sensitivity is maintained after its purification by sucrose gradients and ion exchange columns. A molecular weight of about 100 000 has been estimated. This DNA polymerase requires high salt concentration for its activity, is resistant to high concentrations of phosphonoacetic acid (400 micrograms/ml), is partially inhibited by 5 mM N-ethylmaleimide, and is completely inhibited by 0.3 mM parahydroxymercuribenzoate.
Skin infections induced in hairless mice with an Acyclovir resistant herpes simplex virus (HSV) mutant were not followed by the death of the animals, and the survivors had no evidence of latent infections in their sensory ganglia. However, mutant virus was detected in the ganglia during the acute phase of the infection. Mice inoculated with the mutant were fully protected against the fatal outcome of the infection when subsequently challenged with the relatively pathogenic parental virus. In addition the frequency of latent infections established after challenge was significantly reduced. Phosphonoacetic acid treatment of the primary mutant-induced infection abolished the protection against reinfection with parental virus. Acyclovir treatment of the primary infection with the mutant virus did not affect the protection against reinfection with parental virus. The results indicate that drug-resistant, latency-negative, HSV mutants are a promising starting point for the development of an attenuated HSV vaccine.
ABSTRACT The mechanism of immunosuppression induced by bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) was investigated by studying the effects of the virus on the expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. After infection with the virus, the expression of class I molecules was detected by flow cytometry and pulse-chase analysis. A selective downregulation of expression of class I molecules was seen in the infected cells, while the class II expression remained unaffected. The reduction in surface expression was evident as early as 8 hours postinfection, reaching significant levels by 12 hours. The downregulation was seen with a multiplicity of infection as low as 0.1. A modified live vaccine strain of BHV-1 also induced the downregulation of class I expression. Analysis of the viral protein(s) involved in this downregulation with metabolic inhibitors (cycloheximide or phosphonoacetic acid), suggested that the immediate early and/or early proteins of the virus mediate this effect. Pulse-chase ana...
The genome structures of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)/HSV-2 intertypic recombinants have been previously determined by restriction endonuclease analysis, and these recombinants and their parental strains have been employed to demonstrate that mutations within the HSV DNA polymerase locus induce an altered HSV DNA polymerase activity, exhibiting resistance to three inhibitors of DNA polymerase. The viral DNA polymerases induced by two recombinants and their parental strains were purified and shown to possess similar molecular weights (142,000 to 144,000) and similar sensitivity to compounds which distinguish viral and cellular DNA polymerases. The HSV DNA polymerases induced by the resistant recombinant and the resistant parental strain were resistant to inhibition by phosphonoacetic acid, acycloguanosine triphosphate, and the 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside triphosphates. The resistant recombinant (R6-34) induced as much acycloguanosine triphosphate as did the sensitive recombinant (R6-26), but viral DNA synthesis in infected cells and the viral DNA polymerase activity were not inhibited. The 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside-triphosphates were effective competitive inhibitors for the HSV DNA polymerase, and the Ki values for the four 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside triphosphates were determined for the four viral DNA polymerases. The polymerases of the resistant recombinant and the resistant parent possessed a much higher Ki for the 2',3'-dideoxynucleoside triphosphates and for phosphonoacetic acid than did the sensitive strains. A 1.3-kilobase-pair region of HSV-1 DNA within the HSV DNA polymerase locus contained mutations which conferred resistance to three DNA polymerase inhibitors. This region of DNA sequences encoded for an amino acid sequence of 42,000 molecular weight and defined an active center of the HSV DNA polymerase enzyme.
Vaccinia virus, the prototypic member of the poxvirus family, displays a great deal of genetic and physical autonomy from the host. The virus replicates solely within the cytoplasm of the host, and the 192-kb genome is thought to encode most if not all of the functions required for genome replication, gene expression, and virion morphogenesis. The centerpiece of the replication apparatus is the E9 DNA polymerase, which displays significant homology to the ␣ and ␦ families of eucaryotic replicative polymerases as well as the polymerases encoded by herpesviruses. We and others have characterized the polymerase both genetically and biochemically (4, 5,9, 10, 12, 29-31, 36, 38, 39, 41). Temperature-sensitive (ts) alleles, mutator and anti-mutator alleles, and mutants conferring resistance to aphidicolin, phosphonoacetic acid, and cytosine arabinoside have been isolated and studied. The polymerase has been overexpressed and purified and shown to have both polymerase and proofreading exonuclease activities. We have also shown that the enzyme is inherently distributive in vitro, being able to catalyze the addition of Ͻ10 nucleotides (nt) per binding event when moderate levels of salt (40 mM NaCl) or divalent cations (8 mM MgCl 2 ) are present (31). In sharp contrast, the cytoplasmic lysates of infected cells are able to catalyze the addition of as many as 7,000 nt in a single binding event under the same reaction conditions (29) . We demonstrated that the protein(s) responsible for conferring processivity on the viral polymerase was present in extracts prepared from infected cells in which only early proteins were present but not in extracts prepared from uninfected cells. We also demonstrated that the vaccinia virus processivity factor had a native molecular mass of 45 kDa. In the accompanying paper, we describe our identification of the A20 protein as a stoichiometric component of the processive form of the polymerase. We show that A20 and DNA polymerase copurify through six chromatographic steps, that their physical interaction can be confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation, and that overexpression of both A20 and DNA polymerase leads to a corresponding increase in the levels of processive polymerase activity (24).
As α-carboxy nucleoside phosphonates (α-CNPs) have demonstrated a novel mode of action of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibition, structurally related derivatives were synthesized, namely the malonate 2, the unsaturated and saturated bisphosphonates 3 and 4, respectively and the amide 5. These compounds were evaluated for inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase in cell-free assays. The importance of the α-carboxy phosphonoacetic acid moiety for achieving reverse transcriptase inhibition, without the need for prior phosphorylation, was confirmed. The malonate derivative 2 was less active by two orders of magnitude than the original α-CNPs, while displaying the same pattern of kinetic behavior; interestingly the activity resides in the “L”-enantiomer of 2, as seen with the earlier series of α-CNPs. A crystal structure with an RT/DNA complex at 2.95 Å resolution revealed the binding of the “L”-enantiomer of 2, at the polymerase active site with a weaker metal ion chelation environment compared to 1a (T-α-CNP) which may explain the lower inhibitory activity of 2.
The BC-1 cell line, derived from a body cavity-based, B-cell lymphoma, is dually infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). In these studies, the relationships between these two gammaherpesviruses and BC-1 cells were characterized and compared. Single-cell cloning experiments suggested that all BC-1 cells contain both genomes. In more than 98% of cells, both viruses were latent. The two viruses could be differentially induced into their lytic cycles by chemicals. EBV was activated into DNA replication and late-gene expression by the phorbol ester tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA). KSHV was induced into DNA replication and late-gene expression by n-butyrate. Amplification of both EBV and KSHV DNAs was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid. Induction of the KSHV lytic cycle by n-butyrate was accompanied by the disappearance of host-cell beta-actin mRNA. Induction of EBV by TPA was not accompanied by such an effect on host-cell gene expression. Induction of the KSHV lytic cycle by n-butyrate was associated with the expression of several novel polypeptides. Recognition of one of these, p40, served as the basis of development of an assay for antibodies to KSHV in the sera of infected patients. BC-1 cells released infectious EBV; however, there was no evidence for the release of encapsidated KSHV genomes by BC-1 cells, even though n-butyrate-treated cells contained numerous intranuclear nucleocapsids. The differential inducibility of these two herpesviruses in the same cell line points to the importance of viral factors in the switch from latency to lytic cycle.
Rate constants for the removal of iron from N-terminal monoferric transferrin have been measured for a series of phosphate and phosphonocarboxylic acids in pH 7.4 0.1 M hepes buffer at 25 degrees C. The bidentate ligands pyrophosphate and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) show a combination of saturation and first-order kinetics with respect to the ligand concentration. Similar results are observed following a single substitution at the 2-position of PAA to give 2-benzyl-PAA and phosphonosuccinic acid. In contrast, disubstitution at the 2-position to form 2,2-dibenzyl-PAA leads to a marked reduction in iron removal via the first-order pathway. Rate constants were also measured for tripolyphosphate and phosphonodiacetic acid, which are elongated versions of PP(i) and PAA. In both cases, this elongation completely eliminates the first-order component for iron release while having relatively little impact on the saturation pathway. The sensitivity of the first-order component to the structure of the ligand strongly indicates that this pathway involves the binding of the ligand to a specific site on the protein and cannot be attributed to changes in the overall ionic strength of the solution as the ligand concentration increases. It is proposed that this structural sensitivity reflects steric restrictions on the ability of the incoming ligand to substitute for the synergistic carbonate anion to form a relatively unstable Fe-ligand-Tf ternary intermediate, which then dissociates to FeL and apoTf.
Incubation of 2-amino-3-phosphono[3-14C]propionic acid with cell-free preparations of rat liver yielded labelled 3-phosphonopyruvic acid, 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde, 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and acetaldehyde. No radioactivity was found in phosphoenolpyruvate, pyruvic acid, alanine, and phosphonoacetic acid. When added to the cell-free preparations, 3-phosphonopyruvic acid trapped the radioactivity, resulting in decrease of incorporation of the radioactivity into 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde, 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and acetaldehyde. Incorporation of the radioactivity into 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid and acetaldehyde was also decreased by 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde. Thus it appears that the main metabolic pathway of 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid is deamination to produce 3-phosphonopyruvic acid which is, in turn, converted to 2-phosphonoacetaldehyde by decarboxylation, followed by both dephosphonylation and amination of the aldehyde to give acetaldehyde and 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid, respectively.
DNA-directed RNA polymerase from Escherichia coli can break down RNA by catalysing the reverse of the reaction: NTP + (RNA)n = (RNA)n+1 + PPi where n indicates the number of nucleotide residues in the RNA molecule, to yield nucleoside triphosphates. This reaction requires the ternary complex of the polymerase with template DNA and the RNA that it has synthesized. It is now shown that methylenebis(arsonic acid) [CH2(AsO3H2)2], arsonomethylphosphonic acid (H2O3As-CH2-PO3H2) and arsonoacetic acid (H2O3As-CH2-CO2H) can replace pyrophosphate in this reaction. When they do so, the low-Mr products of the reaction prove to be nucleoside 5′-phosphates, so that the arsenical compounds endow the polymerase with an artificial exonuclease activity, an effect previously found by Rozovskaya, Chenchik, Tarusova, Bibilashvili & Khomutov [(1981) Mol. Biol. (Moscow) 15, 636-652] for phosphonoacetic acid (H2O3P-CH2-CO2H). This is explained by instability of the analogues of nucleoside triphosphates believed to be the initial products. Specificity of recognition of pyrophosphate is discussed in terms of the sites, beta and gamma, for the -PO3H2 groups of pyrophosphate that will yield P-beta and P-gamma of the nascent nucleoside triphosphate. Site gamma can accept -AsO3H2 in place of -PO3H2, but less well; site beta can accept both, and also -CO2H. We suggest that partial transfer of an Mg2+ ion from the attacking pyrophosphate to the phosphate of the internucleotide bond of the RNA may increase the nucleophilic reactivity of the pyrophosphate and the electrophilicity of the diester, so that the reaction is assisted.
The biochemical properties of four acyclovir-resistant mutants are described. Two of these mutants, PAAr5 and BWr, specified nucleotidyl transferase (DNA polymerase) activities which were less sensitive to inhibition by acyclovir triphosphate than their wild-type counterparts. Another mutant, IUdRr, exhibited reduced ability to phosphorylate acyclovir. The fourth mutant, ACGr4, both induced an altered DNA polymerase and failed to phosphorylate appreciable amounts of acyclovir. BWr, a new acyclovir-resistant mutant derived from the Patton strain of herpes simplex virus type 1, induced a DNA polymerase resistant to inhibition by acyclovir triphosphate, but, unlike the polymerases induced by PAAr5 and ACGr4, still sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid. Resistance of BWr to acyclovir mapped close to the PAAr locus and was separable from mutations in the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase gene by recombination analysis.
The hydrothermal reactions of KCl, RbCl, CsOH, and CsCl with phosphonoacetic acid and uranium trioxide at 180 degrees C for three to five days results in the formation of five different crystalline uranyl carboxyphosphonates, K[(UO(2))(2)(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2))(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2)H)(H(2)O)] x H(2)O, Rb[(UO(2))(2)(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2))(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2)H)(H(2)O)] x H(2)O, Cs[(UO(2))(2)(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2))(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2)H)(H(2)O)] x H(2)O, Cs[(UO(2))(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2))], and Cs(3)[(UO(2))(4)(PO(3)CH(2)O(2))(2)(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2)H(0.5))(2)] x nH(2)O, respectively. In all compounds, the UO(2)(2+) moieties are bound by phosphonate and carboxylate forming pentagonal bipyramidal environments around the uranium centers. At low pH, some of the carboxylate portions of the phosphonoacetate are protonated. The addition of hydroxide removes these protons, and a different structure is adopted. In contrast to all other uranyl carboxyphosphonates, Cs(3)[(UO(2))(4)(PO(3)CH(2)O(2))(2)(PO(3)CH(2)CO(2)H(0.5))(2)] x nH(2)O adopts a three-dimensional network structure with large channels along the c axis that house the Cs(+) cations.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) reportedly induces the expression of a 70 kDa heat shock protein (hsp70) with no known function in the virus replication cycle. We report here a remarkably specific translocation pattern of hsp70 during HCMV infection of human diploid fibroblasts. Immunofluorescent observation and Western blotting of subcellular fractions revealed nuclear localization of hsp70 early in infection and predominantly cytoplasmic localization of hsp70 late in infection. Treatment of HCMV-infected cells with cycloheximide followed by treatment with actinomycin D allowed virus immediate-early gene expression but inhibited hsp70 nuclear localization. Phosphonoacetic acid and tunicamycin, both of which reportedly inhibit HCMV DNA replication, did not inhibit HCMV-induced nuclear localization of hsp70 but inhibited hsp70 translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. These results indicate a correlation between HCMV multiplication and hsp70 localization, suggesting that hsp70 may play a role in HCMV multiplication.
Treatment of herpes simplex virus (HSV)-infected hairless mice with a 2% phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) ointment prevented the appearance of virus-induced skin lesions and subsequent central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Treatment started 24 h after infection significantly reduced the intensity of the skin lesions and also prevented CNS involvement. After four to six applications of PAA ointment, a moderate skin erythemia developed, followed by scaling and complete healing 7 days after cessation of the treatment. Mice treated early after HSV infection had low or undetectable levels of virus-specific antibodies but were completely resistant to reinfection. Early treatment prevented the development of a latent ganglionic infection, but treatment initiated 24 h after infection could not prevent the establishment of the latent infection. PAA-treated and HSV-infected mice with nondetectable levels of antibodies did not develop, with a single exception, a latent ganglionic infection unpon reinfection. The cell-mediated immune response determined by levels of [14C]thymidine incorporation in Ficoll-Hypaque-purified spleen lymphocytes cultures was low in PAA-treated mice; it increased slightly after challenge infection but was strong in mice that proved to harbor a latent HSV infection in the ganglia.
Abstract The requirement of protozoan parasites for pre-formed purines affords the opportunity for quantitation of nucleic acid synthesis from incorporation of radioactively labeled purines into DNA and RNA. We have developed rapid and simple assays to quantitate DNA and RNA synthesis in promastigotes of Leishmania major and L. donovani from the incorporation of [ 3 H]hypoxanthine. DNA but not RNA synthesis in L. major or L. donovani promastigotes was inhibited by aphidicolin (50% inhibition by 0.2–0.3 μM) and by hydroxyurea (50% inhibition by 0.3–0.5 mM). The inhibition of DNA synthesis by aphidicolin or hydroxyurea was reversible when the inhibitor was removed 2, 4 or 24 h after its addition. Several well-characterized agents that inhibit DNA synthesis in mammalian cells, 1-β- d -arabinofuranosylcytosine (araC), 9-β- d -arabinofuranosyladenine (araA), phosphonoacetic acid, novobiocin and N 2 -( p - n -butylphenyl)guanine (BuPG), failed to inhibit DNA synthesis in promastigotes of L. major even when used at very high concentrations, demonstrating differences between DNA replication components of parasite and host.
The BC-1 cell line, derived from a body cavity-based, B-cell lymphoma, is dually infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). In these studies, the relationships between these two gammaherpesviruses and BC-1 cells were characterized and compared. Single-cell cloning experiments suggested that all BC-1 cells contain both genomes. In more than 98% of cells, both viruses were latent. The two viruses could be differentially induced into their lytic cycles by chemicals. EBV was activated into DNA replication and late-gene expression by the phorbol ester tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA). KSHV was induced into DNA replication and late-gene expression by n-butyrate. Amplification of both EBV and KSHV DNAs was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid. Induction of the KSHV lytic cycle by n-butyrate was accompanied by the disappearance of host-cell ␤-actin mRNA. Induction of EBV by TPA was not accompanied by such an effect on host-cell gene expression. Induction of the KSHV lytic cycle by n-butyrate was associated with the expression of several novel polypeptides. Recognition of one of these, p40, served as the basis of development of an assay for antibodies to KSHV in the sera of infected patients. BC-1 cells released infectious EBV; however, there was no evidence for the release of encapsidated KSHV genomes by BC-1 cells, even though n-butyratetreated cells contained numerous intranuclear nucleocapsids. The differential inducibility of these two herpesviruses in the same cell line points to the importance of viral factors in the switch from latency to lytic cycle.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) reportedly induces the expression of a 70 kDa heat shock protein (hsp70) with no known function in the virus replication cycle. We report here a remarkably specific translocation pattern of hsp70 during HCMV infection of human diploid fibroblasts. Immunofluorescent observation and Western blotting of subcellular fractions revealed nuclear localization of hsp70 early in infection and predominantly cytoplasmic localization of hsp70 late in infection. Treatment of HCMV-infected cells with cycloheximide followed by treatment with actinomycin D allowed virus immediate-early gene expression but inhibited hsp70 nuclear localization. Phosphonoacetic acid and tunicamycin, both of which reportedly inhibit HCMV DNA replication, did not inhibit HCMV-induced nuclear localization of hsp70 but inhibited hsp70 translocation from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. These results indicate a correlation between HCMV multiplication and hsp70 localization, suggesting that hsp70 may play a role in HCMV multiplication.
Abstract We isolated a ganciclovir (GCV)-resistant human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) from a laboratory strain, AD169, and analysed the mutant. Attempts were also made to identify directly the mutated gene. The 50% inhibitory concentration (IC 50 ) of GCV for the mutant strain was five times higher than that of the wild-type strain. The mutant strain showed similar sensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid and cidofovir as the wild-type strain. These data suggest mutation in the UL97 gene encoding for the phosphotransferase that phosphorylates GCV. Molecular analysis of the mutant strain revealed that a single base substitution of adenine by cytosine occurred at the 1796 nucleotide position of the UL97 gene region, resulting in the substitution of lysine by threonine at codon 599 in the UL97 gene product. Marker transfer experiment confirmed that this mutation conferred HCMV resistance to GCV. The mutation at codon 599 was easily identified by means of Rsa I digestion of the selected PCR product.
Abstract Two new zinc phosphonates with 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA) and 1-hydroxyethylidenediphosphonic acid (hedpH 4 ), [Zn 2 {HO 3 PCH(OH)CO 2 } 3 ]·2NH 2 (CH 3 ) 2 ·3H 2 O ( 1 ) and [Zn 3 {CH 3 C(OH)(PO 3 ) 2 } 2 ]·2NH 2 (CH 3 ) 2 ·H 2 O ( 2 ) have been synthesized under mixed-solvothermal conditions at 160 °C and structurally characterized by X-ray single-crystal diffraction, X-ray powder diffraction, infrared spectroscopy and elemental analysis. The structure of compound 1 comprises Zn1O 6 and Zn2O 6 octahedra connected by [HO 3 PCH(OH)CO 2 ] 2− to form a 2D layered structure with one-dimensional channel system along c -axis direction, and the protonated dimethylamine cations are being located between two adjacent layers. Interestingly the layers of 1 arranged in an alternative sequence (ABAB). Compound 2 features a 3D framework structure with channels along the b - and c -axis, respectively. The charge-compensating protonated Hdma + cations and solvate water molecules are located inside the channels along the c -axis. A notable feature for compound 2 is the presence of the alternate left- and right-handed helical chains in the structure. The luminescence properties of compounds 1 and 2 have also been studied.
Abstract In the presence of ethylenediamine template agents, a novel 3D cadmium phosphonate with double-stranded helical channels, [enH 2 ] 0.5 [Cd 2 (HL)(L)] 1 (H 3 L = 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid; en = ethylenediamine) has been synthesized by hydrothermal reaction at 140 °C and characterized by single-crystal X-ray diffraction as well as by infrared spectroscopy, elemental and thermogravimetric analysis. The structure of compound 1 comprises right-handed double-stranded helical channels, left-handed double-stranded helical channels and achiral channels that are connected through cadmium atoms and L 3− ligands to form a meso compound, and the protonated ethylenediamine cations are located inside the achiral channels.
The invention relates to a circulating water corrosion and scale inhibitor and a preparation method thereof. The circulating water corrosion and scale inhibitor mainly comprises polyacrylamide, 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid, polyepoxysuccinic acid, anthocyanidins, tea polyphenol, melamine, isophorondiamine, ethylene glycol and water. The circulating water corrosion and scale inhibitor is suitable for industrial circulating cooling water systems to realize pre-film corrosion, scale prevention and corrosion inhibition of high-salinity wastewater in the circulating cooling water.
Abstract Proofreading by the bacteriophage T4 and RB69 DNA polymerases requires a β hairpin structure that resides in the exonuclease domain. Genetic, biochemical and structural studies demonstrate that the phage β hairpin acts as a wedge to separate the primer-end from the template strand in exonuclease complexes. Single amino acid substitutions in the tip of the hairpin or deletion of the hairpin prevent proofreading and create “mutator” DNA polymerases. There is little known, however, about the function of similar hairpin structures in other family B DNA polymerases. We present mutational analysis of the yeast ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) DNA polymerase δ hairpin. Deletion of the DNA polymerase δ hairpin (hpΔ) did not significantly reduce DNA replication fidelity; thus, the β hairpin structure in yeast DNA polymerase δ is not essential for proofreading. However, replication efficiency was reduced as indicated by a slow growth phenotype. In contrast, the G447D amino acid substitution in the tip of the hairpin increased frameshift mutations and sensitivity to hydroxyurea (HU). A chimeric yeast DNA polymerase δ was constructed in which the T4 DNA polymerase hairpin (T4hp) replaced the yeast DNA polymerase δ hairpin; a strong increase in frameshift mutations was observed and the mutant strain was sensitive to HU and to the pyrophosphate analog, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). But all phenotypes – slow growth, HU-sensitivity, PAA-sensitivity, and reduced fidelity, were observed only in the absence of mismatch repair (MMR), which implicates a role for MMR in mediating DNA polymerase δ replication problems. In comparison, another family B DNA polymerase, DNA polymerase ɛ, has only an atrophied hairpin with no apparent function. Thus, while family B DNA polymerases share conserved motifs and general structural features, the β hairpin has evolved to meet specific needs.
Abstract The effect of phosphonoacetic acid (PA), an inhibitor of herpesvirus DNA polymerase, was studied on replication of Marek's disease virus (MDV) DNA in a lymphoid cell line (MSB-1) originally established from an MD tumor. PA had no significant effect on the growth of MSB-1 cells at concentrations of 100 μg/ml and lower. Also, PA had no effect on synthesis of early virus antigens at concentrations up to 400 μg/ml. PA did, however, suppress the synthesis of virus specific DNA, as indicated by a decrease in the number of virus genomes per cell, and inhibited the synthesis of late virus products, as indicated by the lack of virus assembly. Minimal virus DNA was produced in cells treated with up to 400 μ/ml of PA. Removal of PA from MSB-1 cultures and further propagation of the cells in the absence of PA resulted in an increase in the number of virus genomes per cell and synthesis of late virus products.
Hybrid selected translation was used to map the genome of herpesvirus saimiri, a lymphotropic and oncogenic herpesvirus. RNA extracted from virus-infected cells was hybridized to cloned genomic fragments, and the hybrid selected mRNAs were translated in vitro in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate. Forty-five virus-induced polypeptides were identified and correlated to their coding regions on the herpesvirus saimiri genome. Inhibition of the replication of viral DNA with phosphonoacetic acid showed that 22 of these polypeptides belong to the early group of herpesvirus saimiri gene products.
The frequency of recombination between transfected plasmid DNAs was measured by using cultured cells infected with a variety of poxviruses. Plasmid derivatives of pBR322 containing XhoI linker insertion mutations in the tetracycline gene were used to assess recombination frequencies in rabbit cells infected with the leporipoxviruses Shope fibroma virus and myxoma virus and the orthopoxvirus vaccinia virus. Recombination frequencies were calculated by Southern blotting, which detects novel plasmid restriction fragments generated by genetic recombination, and by a plasmid rescue procedure in which the reconstruction of an intact tetracycline gene in the transfected rabbit cell was monitored by transformation back into Escherichia coli. The highest recombination frequencies were measured in cells infected with Shope fibroma virus and myxoma virus, and a minimum recombination frequency of at least one recombination event per 7 kilobases was calculated within 24 h posttransfection under these conditions. The deduced recombination frequency in vaccinia virus-infected cells was at least fivefold lower and was not detectable in mock-infected cells, suggesting that the induced recombination activity detected by these methods was under viral control. The results of kinetic studies, analysis with methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes, and the use of phosphonoacetic acid, a specific inhibitor of poxvirus DNA polymerase, indicated that recombination between transfecting DNAs occurred concomitantly with DNA replication but that the two processes could be partially uncoupled. We conclude that the dramatic expansion of recombination activities in the cytoplasm of poxvirus-infected cells is virus specific and offers a good model system with which to analyze the mechanism of recombination in a eucaryotic environment.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), Phosphonoformic acid (PFA), two analogous substances, and Trifluorothymidine ointment (TFT) were studied in a rabbit model of herpetic keratitis for their antiviral as well as toxic effects. The preliminary results indicate that PAA and PFA may have a better therapeutic index than TFT ointment.
PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED: To obtain a new compound having a proteoglycan synthesis-stimulating effect in cartilage and a substance P antagonistic action, and useful for the treatment and prophylaxis of degenerative joint disorders, rheumatic diseases accompanied by cartilage breakdown, inflammations, etc. SOLUTION: This phosphonoacetic acid derivative is a compound of formula I {at least 2 of R 1 to R 3 exist and express each OH, a 1-12C alkoxy or the like; R 5 is CN, CH 2 NHR 9 [R 9 is H, C(O)-2-3C alkyl] or the like; R 6 and R 7 are each H, a 1-6C alkyl or the like; (C-A-C) is (CH 2 -CH), (CH=C) or the like; provided that when R 5 is CN, one of R 1 to R 3 is hydroxyl} or salt thereof and/or a stereoisomer thereof (except for compounds of formulae II and III), e.g. 3-(3,4-diacetoxyphenyl)-2-(diethoxyphosphinyl)propenic acid ethyl. The compound is obtained e.g. by reacting 3,4-diacetoxybenzaldehyde with phosphonoacetic acid triethyl in THF in the presence of TiCl 4 and then reacting N-methylmorpholine therewith. COPYRIGHT: (C)1996,JPO
In order to explore the optimal efficacy of topical active agents in the treatment of dermatological disorders, 500 outpatients took trials with lau-rocapram, a permeable topical accelerant. Most of topical active agents were consisting chiefly of clobetasol propiona-te(DMF), phosphonoacetic acid(PAA), anthralin and benzoyl peroxide. Dermatitis or eczema, psoriasis. acne vulgaris, viral skin diseases and skin lesions of connective tissue were treated with lauro-capram and a lower strength of topical active agents. As a result, a rapid and promising therapeutic value within 3 to 28 days was observed, and the side effects were not only mild but also rare.
The stoichiometry and stability constants for americium and europium complexes with phosphonoacetic acid (HO2CCH2PO3H2 − PAA) in dilute acid solutions (0.005 to 0.02 M) have been determined by distribution methods at 0.5 M ionic strength and 25.0°C. The identified Am and Eu complexes and log β mhl values are Am(H2L)2+ − 13.82(±0.04), Am(HL)+ − 11.62(±0.04), Am(H2L)2 + − 27.35(±0.01), Eu(HL)+ − 12.10(±0.05), Eu(H2L)2 + − 27.81 (±0.01), Eu(HL)2 − − 23.08(±0.05). The Eu complexes are stronger than Am complexes of comparable stoichiometry, in accord with the electrostatic nature of the metal-ligand interaction. PAA was tested as a potential agent of enhanced Am/Eu separation in solvent extraction systems by examining Am and Eu extraction using different extractants. For extraction into bis(2-ethylhexyl)phosphoric acid (HDEHP), PAA slightly reduces the Am/Eu separation factor. With dinonylnapthalenesulfonic acid (HDNNS), or octyl(phenyl)-N, N-diisobutyl-carbamoylmethylphosphine oxide (CMPO)-nitrate extraction systems, SEu Am is slightly enhanced by PAA.
Publisher Summary Human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) was originally isolated from patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and a variety of lymphoproliferative disorders, as well as from normal individuals. This chapter discusses the information that has been developed concerning the response of HHV-6 to antiviral agents, problems that are associated with determining the sensitivity of HHV-6 and approaches that should be taken these types of studies. It is apparent that while some progress has been made, there is a considerable amount of research that needs to be done to determine the response of HHV-6 to antiviral agents. This chapter also discusses the studies directed towards determining the response of HHV-6 to antiviral agents. These studies focus on an antiviral agent that has been demonstrated to be effective in treating infections caused by various herpesviruses and HIV-1. These compounds are phosphonoacetic acid, phosphonoformic acid, azidothymidine, acyclovir, and ganciclovir. A diagrammatic representation of these compounds has also been shown in the chapter.
Acycloguanosine (ACG) was able to prevent the fatal outcome of herpes simplex virus-induced skin infections of the lumbosacral or orofacila area in hairless mice. Topical ACG treatment was more effective than systemic treatment in preventing the evolution of skin lesions. Acute ganglionic infections in the trigeminal ganglia were prevented by ACG, and latent ganglionic infections did not become established when the ACG treatment was initiated 3 h after infection. Serum antibody titers were, on the average, eight times higher in mice which developed latent ganglionic infections after ACG treatment than in mice without evidence of herpes simplex virus latency in ganglia. Reinoculation of ACG-treated mice at a site different from that of the primary inoculation did not lead to the establishment of a second latent infection with the homologous virus type when a latent infection was already present. In mice without evidence of latent infection after the primary inoculation, a latent infection at the site of reinoculation became established in 25% of the animals. (8) have shown that ACG, on a molar basis, is about 10 times more potent than 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine, 160 times more active than adenine arabinoside (Ara-A), and about 600 times more active than phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). ACG was tested for activity in mice infected intracerebrally with HSV: given by the oral route or subcutaneously in a dose of 100 mg/kg of body weight twice daily for 5 days, the compound increased the survival time of infected mice (8). ACG ointments were also evaluated in experimental herpetic keratitis in rabbits and in HSV-induced lesions in guinea pigs. In both models, the substance conferred good protection against the infections (2, 8) . No quantitative data regarding the skin infections were given in the above-mentioned experiments.
Next, cycloheximide (CHX) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) were used to identify the ORF73 and ORF71 kinetic class of transcription. This experiment revealed that neither CHX nor PAA inhibited ORF73 and ORF71 expression, suggesting that both ORFs are expressed as IE genes. BoHV-4 ORF5 (Bo5) encoding the BoHV-4 major IE transcript, ORF21 and ORF22 were used as controls in this experiment; the results presented in Fig. 2 (a) confirmed that they are IE, E and L genes, respectively. The absence of contaminant viral DNA in the mRNA preparations was confirmed by the absence of a PCR product when reverse transcriptase was omitted from the reactions (Fig. 2a) . The expression of BoHV-4 ORF73 as an IE gene is consistent with earlier reports describing the expression of ORF73 orthologues encoded by rhadinoviruses early after infection (Ebrahimi et al., 2003; Martinez-Guzman et al., 2003; Sarid et al., 1999) .
Abstract Using eukaryotic cells that have been rendered permeable to exogenously supplied nucleotides, we have characterized the activity of the poly(adenosine diphosphoribose) (poly(ADPR)) synthesis system and compared it to the DNA synthesis complex. The synthesis of poly(ADPR) is dependent on the presence of NAD and Mg2+. It does not require ATP, NaF or a monovalent cation. It is inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide. The reaction product conforms to the nuclease susceptibilities expected for poly(ADP ribose) in that it is degraded by venom phosphodiesterase but not by DNAase or RNAase. A comparison of the effects of inhibitors of poly(ADPR) synthesis and DNA synthesis clearly distinguishes between the two enzymatic systems. Nicotinamide, 5-methyl nicotinamide, thymidine, 5-bromo deoxyuridine, adenosine diphosphoribose, caffeine and formycin all inhibit poly(ADPR) synthesis but not DNA synthesis. In contrast, araCTP, cytembena and phosphonoacetic acid all inhibit DNA synthesis but not poly(ADPR) synthesis. Addition of DNAase to the permeable cells causes a marked stimulation of poly(ADPR) synthesis. L cells in logarithmic growth were found to have high levels of activity of the DNA synthesis complex and low levels of activity of the poly(ADPR) synthesis system. In contrast, cells at plateau phase density demonstrate a decrease in the activity of the DNA synthesis complex and a marked increase in activity of the poly(ADPR) synthesis system. When examined in the presence of added DNAase, the activity of the poly(ADPR) synthesis system is the same in cells obtained from log or plateau phase cultures. This indicates that the physiologic activity of the enzyme varies while the total amount of enzyme remains constant. When the permeable cells are allowed to synthesize both poly(ADPR) and DNA simultaneously, the synthesis of one polymer has no effect on the rate of synthesis of the other.
We report on the analysis of the UL6 and UL7 open reading frames of the herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) genome. The UL6 and UL7 transcripts were identified in HSV-1-infected cells by Northern blotting and shown to be coterminal at their 3' ends. Both transcripts were synthesized in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, although in reduced amounts, indicating that UL6 and UL7 are expressed as delayed-early or gamma-1 genes. The 5' ends of the two transcripts were mapped by S1 nuclease and primer extension analysis. A polyclonal antiserum directed against an Escherichia coli-expressed 6 x His-UL6 fusion protein identified a protein of approximate M(r) 75,000 in cells infected with either HSV-1 or with a vaccinia virus recombinant expressing the HSV-1 UL6 protein. As with the transcript, the UL6 protein was synthesized at reduced levels in the absence of viral DNA replication. Western immunoblotting showed that the UL6 protein was present in purified virions but not in L-particles of HSV-1, and that it was located exclusively in the tegument/capsid fraction of virion. Further analysis of the UL6 protein revealed that this protein was associated with virus capsids.
The gamma(1)34.5 protein of herpes simplex virus (HSV) plays a crucial role in virus infection. Although the double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) is activated during HSV infection, the gamma(1)34.5 protein inhibits the activity of PKR by mediating dephosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF-2alpha. Here we show that HSV infection also induces phosphorylation of an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident kinase PERK, a hallmark of ER stress response. The virus-induced phosphorylation of PERK is blocked by cycloheximide but not by phosphonoacetic acid, suggesting that the accumulation of viral proteins in the ER is essential. Notably, the maximal phosphorylation of PERK is delayed in PKR+/+ cells compared to that seen in PKR-/- cells. Further analysis indicates that hyperphosphorylation of eIF-2alpha caused by HSV is greater in PKR+/+ cells than in PKR-/- cells. However, expression of the gamma(1)34.5 protein suppresses the ER stress response caused by virus, dithiothreitol, and thapsigargin as measured by global protein synthesis. Interestingly, the expression of GADD34 stimulated by HSV infection parallels the status of eIF-2alpha phosphorylation. Together, these observations suggest that regulation of eIF-2alpha phosphorylation by the gamma(1)34.5 protein is an efficient way to antagonize the inhibitory activity of PKR as well as PERK during productive infection.
Knoevenagel reaction of aromatic aldehydes or a-substituted aliphatic aldehydes with diethylphosphonoacetic acid leads to the formation of 3-substituted-2-(diethoxyphosphoryl)acrylic acids. Decarboxylation of the resulting (E)-3-aryl-2-(diethoxyphosphoryllacrylic acids afforded diethyl (E)-2-arylvinylphosphonates. Direct synthesis of diethyl vinylphosphonates from some aromatic aldehydes and formaldehyde is also reported.
The effect of chemical inhibitors on reproduction of 2 laboratory and 3 vaccine strains of herpes simplex virus (HSV), types 1 and 2, was studied. By the time of the study the vaccine strains had undergone from 27 to 69 passages in chick embryo fibroblast cultures. All the vaccine strains (L2, Us, and VN) exhibited 100-1000 fold higher resistance to phosphonoacetic acid than did the laboratory F+ and G strains, and the vaccine L2 strain (HSV-1) was also 1000-fold resistant to 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosine thymine.
The herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) US2 gene product was identified by using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against a recombinant 6 x His-US2 fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli. The antiserum reacted specifically with a 39 kDa protein in HSV-2 strain 186-infected cell lysates. The protein was not detectable in the presence of the virus DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Indirect immunofluorescence studies localized the US2 protein in the cytoplasm and as discrete granules at late times post-infection within and at the periphery of the nucleus, and nuclear fractionation studies showed that the protein was partially associated with the nuclear matrix of infected cells. The protein was easily detected in purified virions. Also, a US2 insertion mutant was constructed which contained an ICP6-lacZ insertion in the US2 gene. This mutant was as virulent as wild-type virus in mice when inoculated by the footpad route. The importance of the US2 protein of HSV-2 in the virus life-cycle may be apparent only in the natural human host.
It is well known that EBV has developed strategies to evade immune surveillance. Previously, EBV was shown to bind specifically to monocytes and regulate expression of proinflammatory mediators such as IL-1, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and leukotrienes. EBV was also found to affect phagocytosis of monocytes. In this study, we show that in addition to these effects, EBV suppresses the biosynthesis of PGE2, a pleiotropic immunomodulatory molecule that is synthesized by the dioxygenation of arachidonic acid via the cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway. This down-regulation of PGE2 formation involved the inhibition of the inducible COX-2 isoform expression both at the transcriptional and translational levels, whereas expression of the constitutive COX-1 isoform was unaltered. Furthermore, exposure of monocytes to EBV was found to impact on the NF-kappaB activation pathway, which plays an essential role in the induction of COX-2 in monocytes. The inhibition of PGE2 biosynthesis was relieved when the experiments were conducted in presence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of herpesviruses DNA polymerase, indicating that viral replication and/or neosynthesized viral proteins were involved in this process. Thus, inhibition of PGE2 biosynthesis in monocytes may represent an additional mechanism underlying EBV pathogenicity.
We have recently reported that in the presence of the viral polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), herpes simplex virus type I (HSV-1) induces the hyperphosphorylation of RPA32. This DNA damage response appears to be specific to the inhibition of the viral polymerase since the hyperphosphorylation of RPA32 was not observed during productive infection or during infection with a polymerase null virus (50). We initiated the present study to further define this host stress response to HSV-1 infection.
Superinfection of Raji cells with P3HR1 EBV leads to a lytic cycle of viral expression. In a number of studies we (7-9) and others (10) have described an ordered synthesis of virally induced proteins within superinfected Raji cells. Furthermore, we were able to divide the replicative cycle of EBV into several phases by the use ofa number ofmetabolic inhibitors, these data are summarized in Fig. 1. Fig. 2 shows the appearance of Raji cells superinfected and immobilized in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (Lower Left) and canavanine in the presence of arginine (Lower Right). Reference to Fig. 1 shows that in the presence ofthese inhibitors a limited expression ofthe spectrum of EBV-induced proteins occurs and these cells are capable of undergoing fusion. In a previous study we have shown (1) that addition ofinactivated virus to Raji cells failed to induce fusion.
In vitro, different agents induce the EBV lytic cycle, including phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) (Zur Hausen et al., 1978) , cross-linking of surface immunoglobulin (Takada, 1984) and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) (Fahmi et al., 2000) . The switch from latent to lytic cycle is regulated by two immediate-early proteins ZEBRA (Zta, EB1) and Rta, which are encoded respectively by the EBV BZLF1 and BRLF1 genes (Feederle et al., 2000) leading to expression of early (mainly linked to DNA replication) and late genes that encode principally virion proteins such as Viral Capsid Antigens (VCA). The expression of late genes is abolished by the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). The lytic cycle ultimately leads to the production of the progeny virions (Pattle and Farrell, 2006) . Lytic EBV gene expression might also modify apoptotic process since EBV encodes two lytic anti-apoptotic proteins BHRF1 (Howell et al., 2005) and BALF1 (Altmann and Hammerschmidt, 2005) . It has been noticed that Akata cells very late in EBV replication remained viable by dye exclusion and highly functional (Yuan et al., 2006) . Moreover, Inman et al. (2001) showed that late EBV gene products are required for effective protection of infected B cells from apoptotic death. This led us to investigate the modulation of pro-or anti-apoptotic signalling pathways during EBV lytic cycle.
The herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) US2 gene product was identified by using a rabbit polyclonal antiserum raised against a recombinant 6iHis-US2 fusion protein expressed in Escherichia coli. The antiserum reacted specifically with a 39 kDa protein in HSV-2 strain 186-infected cell lysates. The protein was not detectable in the presence of the virus DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Indirect immunofluorescence studies localized the US2 protein in the cytoplasm and as discrete granules at late times post-infection within and at the
It is well known that EBV has developed strategies to evade immune surveillance. Previously, EBV was shown to bind specifically to monocytes and regulate expression of proinflammatory mediators such as IL-1, IL-6, TNF-␣, and leukotrienes. EBV was also found to affect phagocytosis of monocytes. In this study, we show that in addition to these effects, EBV suppresses the biosynthesis of PGE 2 , a pleiotropic immunomodulatory molecule that is synthesized by the dioxygenation of arachidonic acid via the cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway. This down-regulation of PGE 2 formation involved the inhibition of the inducible COX-2 isoform expression both at the transcriptional and translational levels, whereas expression of the constitutive COX-1 isoform was unaltered. Furthermore, exposure of monocytes to EBV was found to impact on the NF-B activation pathway, which plays an essential role in the induction of COX-2 in monocytes. The inhibition of PGE 2 biosynthesis was relieved when the experiments were conducted in presence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of herpesviruses DNA polymerase, indicating that viral replication and/or neosynthesized viral proteins were involved in this process. Thus, inhibition of PGE 2 biosynthesis in monocytes may represent an additional mechanism underlying EBV pathogenicity.
Abstract B lymphocytes purified by immunoabsorbent chromatography from the peripheral blood lymphocytes of adults provide highly effective targets for infection and transformation by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Using this system, the kinetics of DNA synthesis induction due to EBV infection have been characterized. The kinetics show two phases: an early phase, lasting 3 to 4 days, the rate and absolute level of which are dependent upon multiplicity of infection; and a later phase, representing normal exponential growth, the level but not rate of which is dependent upon multiplicity of infection. The induction of DNA synthesis begins at a time (24 hr) which agrees well with the published times for the appearance of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen (EBNA). Absorption and penetration of the cells by EBV appear to require 1 to 2 hr. The induction of DNA synthesis proceeds normally during the first phase in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA; 200 μg/ml). Thereafter, DNA synthesis remains at a plateau. Blast-transformed EBNA-positive cells may be isolated from these cultures. Removal of PAA at any time up to 28 days postinfection results in resumed proliferation and outgrowth. These cells express four phenotypic properties of transformation by EBV: (1) induction of DNA synthesis, (2) EBNA expression, (3) blast transformation, and (4) immortalization (survival for at least 28 days). However, they cannot grow out. It is therefore proposed that the phenomenon of EBV infection in the presence of PAA may be termed “abortive transformation.”
Abstract Epithelial/Burkitt hybrid cells (D98/HR-1) typically express the Epstein-Barr-associated nuclear antigen (EBNA). Synthesis of early antigen (EA) and virus capsid antigen (VCA) is repressed. Following treatment with 5-iodo-2′-deoxyuridine (IUdR), however, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) EA and late virus-specific products, including EBV DNA and complete virions, are induced. This report demonstrates that phosphonoacetic acid inhibits expression of VCA, but has no effect on EA. Cells treated with IUdR were also found to express a new DNA polymerase which was susceptible to stimulation by salt and was not present in uninduced cells. This salt-stimulated DNA polymerase resembles other herpesvirus-induced DNA polymerases in its requirements for maximal activity and its ability to use synthetic templates in DNA synthesis. Data suggest that this DNA polymerase is induced by EBV and is necessary for the productive synthesis of virus-specific DNA.
The hydrothermal reaction of phosphonoacetic acid (H2PO3CH2C(O)OH, PAA) with UO3 and Cu(C2H3O2)2 .H2O results in the formation of the crystalline heterobimetallic uranium(VI)/copper(II) phosphonates UO2Cu(PO3CH2CO2)(OH)(H2O)2 ( UCuPAA-1), (UO2) 2Cu(PO3CH2CO2)2(H2O)3 (UCuPAA-2), and [H3O][(UO2) 2Cu2(PO3CH2CO2)3(H2O)2 ( UCuPAA-3). The addition of sodium hydroxide to the aforementioned reactions results in the formation of Na[UO2(PO3CH2CO2)].2H2O (NaUPAA-1). These compounds display 1D (UCuPAA-1), 2D (UCuPAA-2, NaUPAA-1), and 3D (UCuPAA-3) architectures wherein the phosphonate portion of the ligand primarily coordinates the uranium(VI) centers; whereas the carboxylate moiety preferentially, but not exclusively, binds to the copper(II) ions. Fluorescence measurements on all four compounds demonstrate that the presence of copper(II) mostly quenches the emission from the uranyl moieties.
Herpesvirus saimiri-specific proteins from the nuclear fractions of productively infected owl monkey kidney cells were dissociated from virus and host DNA by treatment with 2 M-NaCl or separation on Urografin density gradients. Empty virus capsids remained intact and could be separated from major non-structural proteins (110K, 51K and 48K) and from a subset of structural proteins (130K, 29K and 12K), either by Urografin gradient sedimentation or differential centrifugation. The DNA in such soluble extracts of nuclear proteins was efficiently removed by spermine precipitation, together with the host cell histones and large fractions of the 130K and 12K structural proteins. Proteins in the spermine-soluble fraction were analysed by affinity chromatography on columns of single-stranded calf thymus DNA coupled to cellulose. Two major structural proteins (130K and 12K), whose synthesis was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and one minor PAA-resistant structural protein (29K) bound to DNA-cellulose. The major PAA-resistant 110K non-structural protein and the PAA-resistant non-structural 51K and 48K phosphoproteins were efficiently released into the spermine-soluble fraction and also bound to DNA-cellulose as did the 76K protein and minor species of 42K, 39K, 34K, 25K and 21K. Virus-specific proteins were eluted from such columns by buffers containing 0.4 M-NaCl or by heparin in low-salt buffers. Polypeptides from virus particles, infected cell extracts, or samples of eluates from DNA-cellulose chromatography, were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, transferred onto nitrocellulose filters and probed for their ability to bind labelled polynucleotides. The non-structural 51K phosphoprotein, the 12K and 29K structural proteins and a 100K virion polypeptide all bound labelled DNA. However, the binding activities of the 130K protein from virions or purified by affinity chromatography and of the 110K polypeptide could not be demonstrated reproducibly after transfer from SDS gels to nitrocellulose. Comparisons of the present results on the properties of the herpesvirus saimiri-specified DNA-binding proteins with published accounts of the DNA-binding proteins of other herpesviruses, suggest some striking similarities with the DNA-binding proteins of the Epstein-Barr virus.
The diterpene ester promoter of mouse skin tumors, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), efficiently induces Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated DNA polymerase (DNA nucleotidyltransferase) activity in the EBV-producing lymphoblastoid cell line, P3HR-1. With the use of intervent dilution chromatography followed by sequential DEAE-cellulose and phosphocellulose column chromatography, the virus-associated enzyme has been isolated and purified 300-fold. The partially purified EBV DNA polymerase activity could be distinguished from cellular polymerases by its activation with salt and its degree of sensitivity to N-ethylmaleimide and phosphonoacetic acid. The enzyme showed maximum activity for copying activated calf thymus DNA in the presence of 100 mM ammonium sulfate. In the absence of salt, the enzyme utilized with high efficiency deoxyoligomer-homopolymer templates, but failed to copy poly(rA) . oligo(dT)10 and oligo(dT)10, showing that the enzyme had properties distinct from DNA polymerase gamma, reverse transcriptase, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase. The partially purified enzyme is strongly inhibited by acyclovir triphosphate and thus has properties similar to herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase.
When grown in cultured cells, varicella-zoster virus (VZV) forms many aberrant light particles and produces low titers. Various studies have explored the reasons for such a phenotype and have pointed to impaired expression of specific late genes and at lysosomal targeting of egressing virions as possible causes. In the studies presented here, we report that the autophagic degradation pathway was induced at late time points after VZV infection of cultured cells, as documented by immunoblot analysis of the cellular proteins LC3B and p62/SQSTM1, along with electron microscopy analysis, which demonstrated the presence of both early autophagosomes and late autophagic compartments. Autophagy was induced in infected cells even in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral late gene expression, thus suggesting that accumulation of immediate-early and early viral gene products might be the major stimulus for its induction. We also showed that the autophagic response was not dependent on a specific cell substrate, virus strain, or type of inoculum. Finally, using immunofluorescence imaging, we demonstrated autophagosome-specific staining in human zoster vesicles but not in normal skin. Thus, our results document that this innate immune response pathway is a component of the VZV infectious cycle in both cultured cells and the human skin vesicle, the final site of virion formation in the infected human host.
Late gene expression follows and is dependent upon lytic replication of the viral genome. Although experimental evidence is lacking, lytic viral DNA replication is believed to remove modifications or binding factors from the genome which serve to repress late gene expression during latency or the early lytic cycle. We have developed a reporter assay to begin characterizing the mechanisms that regulate late gene expression in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). In this model system, the activities of late promoter-reporter fusions are measured following transient transfection into tissue culture cells expressing EBV during different stages of the lytic cycle. This system faithfully recapitulates late expression patterns from the endogenous virus, implicating specific cis-active sequences in the control of late gene expression. In addition, these promoters respond only indirectly to the viral immediate-early transactivator, ZEBRA. This indirect response is mediated by other viral or virally induced activities downstream of ZEBRA in the lytic cascade. In this system, late gene expression is sensitive to inhibitors of the viral DNA polymerase such as phosphonoacetic acid, although the reporters lack a eukaryotic origin of replication and are not replicated under the assay conditions. Thus, replication of the transcriptional template is not a prerequisite for expression with late kinetics, a finding inconsistent with the current models which posit a cis-active relationship between lytic EBV DNA replication and late gene expression. Rather, analysis of this system has revealed a trans relationship between late gene expression and viral DNA replication and highlights the indirect and complex link between these two events.
Abstract Investigations of phosphonates and related biophosphate analogues as inhibitors of viral nucleic acid polymerases are summarized. General syntheses of α-halo phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and methanediphosphonic acid (MDP) derivatives have been extended to preparation of seven α-halo phenyl (phosphonomethyl) phosphinates (PhMpP). Two phosphonates containing potentially reactive α-keto groups, oxophosphonoacetate (phosphonoglyoxalate, COPAA) and oxomethanediphosphonate (carbonyldiphosphonate, COMDP) are discussed. A convenient, two-step synthesis of trisodium thiophosphonoformate (TPFA) from trimethyl phosphonoformate (Me3PFA) [via Me3TPFA) is presented. TPFA selectively inhibits HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) relative to both human DNA polymerase α (pol α) and four herpesvirus DNA polymerases. The significance of membrane Na+/Pi cotransport inhibition by phosphonates is briefly addressed.
Recently a new virus has been described which infects woodchucks, Marmota monax. This virus, named woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) is closely related to human hepatitis virus (HBV). The virions have the same principal antigenic system involving surface and core determinants and a serological relationship has been found. WHV has also a DNA polymerase associated with the core. It has previously been reported that trisodium phosphonoformate (PFA) but not phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits DNA polymerase associated with HBV. This investigation shows the same type of inhibition pattern by PFA and PAA on WHV DNA polymerase.
Herpesvirus saimiri-specific proteins from the nuclear fractions of productively infected owl monkey kidney cells were dissociated from virus and host DNA by treatment with 2 M-NaCI or separation on Urografin density gradients. Empty virus capsids remained intact and could be separated from major non-structural proteins (110K, 51K and 48K) and from a subset of structural proteins (130K, 29K and 12K), either by Urografin gradient sedimentation or differential centrifugation. The DNA in such soluble extracts of nuclear proteins was efficiently removed by spermine precipitation, together with the host cell histones and large fractions of the 130K and 12K structural proteins. Proteins in the spermine-soluble fraction were analysed by affinity chromatography on columns of single-stranded calf thymus DNA coupled to cellulose. Two major structural proteins (130K and 12K), whose synthesis was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and one minor PAA-resistant structural protein (29K) bound to DNA-cellulose. The major PAA-resistant 11 OK non-structural protein and the PAA-resistant non-structural 51K and 48K phosphoproteins were efficiently released into the spermine-soluble fraction and also bound to DNA-cellulose as did the 76K protein and minor species of 42K, 39K, 34K, 25K and 21K. Virus-specific proteins were eluted from such columns by buffers containing 0.4 M-NaC1 or by heparin in lowsalt buffers. Polypeptides from virus particles, infected cell extracts, or samples of eluates from DNA-cellulose chromatography, were separated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, transferred onto nitrocellulose filters and probed for their ability to bind labelled polynucleotides. The non-structural 51K phosphoprotein, the 12K and 29K structural proteins and a 100K virion polypeptide all bound labelled DNA. However, the binding activities of the 130K protein from virions or purified by affinity chromatography and of the 11 OK polypeptide could not be demonstrated reproducibly after transfer from SDS gels to nitrocellulose. Comparisons of the present results on the properties of the herpesvirus saimiri-specified DNA-binding proteins with published accounts of the DNA-binding proteins of other herpesviruses, suggest some striking similarities with the DNA-binding proteins of the Epstein-Barr virus.
Late gene expression follows and is dependent upon lytic replication of the viral genome. Although experimental evidence is lacking, lytic viral DNA replication is believed to remove modifications or binding factors from the genome which serve to repress late gene expression during latency or the early lytic cycle. We have developed a reporter assay to begin characterizing the mechanisms that regulate late gene expression in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). In this model system, the activities of late promoter-reporter fusions are measured following transient transfection into tissue culture cells expressing EBV during different stages of the lytic cycle. This system faithfully recapitulates late expression patterns from the endogenous virus, implicating specific cis-active sequences in the control of late gene expression. In addition, these promoters respond only indirectly to the viral immediate-early transactivator, ZEBRA. This indirect response is mediated by other viral or virally induced activities downstream of ZEBRA in the lytic cascade. In this system, late gene expression is sensitive to inhibitors of the viral DNA polymerase such as phosphonoacetic acid, although the reporters lack a eukaryotic origin of replication and are not replicated under the assay conditions. Thus, replication of the transcriptional template is not a prerequisite for expression with late kinetics, a finding inconsistent with the current models which posit a cis-active relationship between lytic EBV DNA replication and late gene expression. Rather, analysis of this system has revealed a trans relationship between late gene expression and viral DNA replication and highlights the indirect and complex link between these two events.
The stimulation of host cell DNA synthesis was studied in permissive human embryonic lung (HEL) cells and in nonpermissive rabbit kidney (RK) cells infected with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). Host cell DNA synthesis was induced by HCMV infection in resting cells of both types. In permissive cultures the stimulation of cellular DNA synthesis was detectable mainly in those cells which had not become productively infected and in which virus antigens were not detectable. In abortively infected RK cells, on the other hand, stimulation of host cell DNA synthesis and the expression of virus antigens were detected in the same cells. Infection of actively growing permissive HEL cells resulted in a shutdown of cellular DNA synthesis beginning approximately 10 hr postinfection. Shutdown of cellular DNA synthesis also occurred when the infected cells were treated with phosphonoacetic acid and was thus classified as an "early" virus function. In actively growing, abortively infected RK cells, on the other hand, host cell DNA synthesis was not affected, indicating that the early virus function(s) responsible for inhibition of cellular DNA synthesis was not expressed in these cells. Virus-encoded DNA polymerase activity, another early virus gene function, was also not detected in these abortively infected cultures. In RK cells the cellular DNA synthesized as a result of infection was capable of undergoing at least one further round of replication, indicating that the HCMV gene expression which occurred in abortively infected RK cells was not lethal for these cells.
During productive infections of cells with the gammaherpesvirus, herpesvirus saimiri (HVS), a polyadenylated RNA of 2.2-2.4 kb accumulates to form a large fraction of virus-specified RNA. This transcript is from the virus thymidylate synthase (TS) gene and its synthesis, like that of late mRNAs encoding the virus structural proteins, is sensitive to an inhibitor of virus DNA synthesis (phosphonoacetic acid, PAA). Transcription which is insensitive to PAA occurs from many parts of the HVS genome, including the EcoRI-D, EcoRI-E, EcoRI-I, and HindIII-G fragments. A 1.6-kb RNA from EcoRI-I/E and a 1.3-kb RNA from HindIII-G accumulate in HVS-infected cells incubated in the continuous presence of cycloheximide, and thus represent immediate-early (IE) class transcripts. The 1.3-kb message from HindIII-G is the predominant stable RNA under these conditions; accumulation of the 1.6-kb transcript from EcoRI-I/E (which encodes the previously characterized 52-kDa IE phosphoprotein) is markedly more dependent on the multiplicity of infection. The sequence of a 2.5-kbp region of the HindIII-G fragment has been determined and a single major open reading frame is present within the boundaries of the 1.3-kb IE RNA. Comparison of the amino acid sequence of the encoded protein (IE-G) with current databases of protein sequences failed to demonstrate significant similarities with herpesvirus proteins, but did detect a significant similarity with a region of the protein specified by an open reading frame in the LTR of mouse mammary tumor virus. The function of the IE gene in HindIII-G and the basis for the distinctive multiplicity dependence of IE transcription from the 52-kDa gene remain to be established.
The naturally mediated degradation processes of organophosphorus (OPs) compounds in the environment are not only crucial components of the biogeochemical cycling of phosphorus (P), a key element that supports life, but are also important processes for the abatement of environments polluted with certain toxic anthropogenic OPs. The biological degradation of OPs plays significant roles in the physiological processes in living systems and is a key source of inorganic phosphate (Pi) especially for microorganism in Pi limited environments. The recent implication of bacterial degradation of methyl-phosphonates involving the cleavage of the phosphonate C-P bond that releases methane in the marine environment has been highlighted as a major contributor to global methane production. Thus considering the high global warming index of methane, this process could be an important factor to global climate change. Consequently, understanding the degradation processes of OPs, particularly the cleavage of bonds related to the P-moiety in these compounds, will not only offer information that broadens the knowledge on phosphorus cycling but also crucial in developing effective environmental remediation, abatement strategies and predictive models. ::: Stable isotope analysis, particularly phosphate oxygen isotope analysis, has been useful in paleoclimatic studies by considering the reverse correlation between phosphate oxygen isotope compositions in fossil skeletal apatite to temperature and the implication to other climate parameters. It has also been used to track the fate and distribution of phosphate in aquatic environments by developing mixing models using the phosphate oxygen isotope composition of different sources of Pi in especially rivers and lakes. In this study, the application of stable isotope analysis would consider determining the oxygen isotope composition of both the original P-moiety in OPs before degradation and that of the Pi released after degradation and thus analyzing the isotopic effect of the degradation process with the aim of deducing the reaction mechanisms. In addition, the fact that different classes/sources of OPs may release Pi with unique phosphate oxygen isotope composition could be explored as tracing signature especially in events involving huge pollution by a particular OP. ::: ::: The two classes of OPs used in this work were fairly or completely degraded by the laboratory simulated naturally mediated degradation processes employed. The phosphomonoesters (except phytic acid) were almost completely degraded by both Ultra Violet (UV) photo-oxidation and the extra-cellular acid phosphatases in aqueous media of different isotopically labeled waters. Phytic acid with six Pi groups bonded to inositol may have been step-wisely hydrolyzed producing intermediates (myo-inositol di/monophosphate) that were slow or resistant to further hydrolysis. Acid phosphatase was used in this work to determine its mechanism of C-O-P bond cleavage and to compare its isotopic effect to that of its alkaline phosphatase counterpart, which has been previously studied. Phytase was particularly used in this work to assess its substrate non-specificity and the resulting isotopic effect of its action. The two phosphonates used in this work, glyphosate and phosphonoacetic acid, are anthropogenic and constitute an important component of the environmental organophosphorus pool, partly due to their stable carbon to phosphorus (C-P) bond that renders them relatively refractory. Glyphosate is a broad spectrum and non-selective herbicide (RoundUp™) extensively used in the agro-industry and on public lawns. Phosphonoacetic acid is used as an anti-viral agent and its congener 2-hydroxylphosphonoacetic acid is widely used as a scale and corrosion inhibitor in oilfield refill water systems and power plants. The C-P bond in these compounds, typical of all phosphonates, was effectively hydrolyzed by simulated laboratory UV photo-oxidation used in this work. They were degraded by all bacteria used but only minimally within the design and time frame of the experiment, which required a limiting phosphate free growth medium that should permit extraction of the release phosphate for oxygen isotope analysis. In addition, microcalorimetric analysis of the bacteria degradation was done to assess the energetics of the C-P bond cleavage. ::: ::: UV photo-oxidation of the OPs considered in this work proceeded via different mechanisms based on the bond linkage between the P-moiety and the organic constituent. The oxygen isotope composition measurements of Pi released by the UV photo-oxidation of the phosphomonoesters (except phytic acid) did not vary in different labeled waters indicating no incorporation of ambient reaction media oxygen into the released Pi, thus supporting the notion that UV-photo-oxidation of phosphomonoesters proceeds by the cleavage of only the C-O bond in the phospho-ester C-O-P linkage. Phytic acid with multiple Pi groups bonded to a six-carbon ring (inositol) backbone was hydrolyzed by both the cleavage of the C-O and P-O bonds with more than 50% P-O bond cleavage. This is attributed to either steric hindrance around the C-O bonds or the possible stepwise cleavage of the six Pi groups or a combination of both. The UV-photo-oxidation phosphonates proceeded via the cleavage of the C-P bond but with the involvement of both ambient water and atmospheric oxygen. The atmospheric O2 molecule is proposed to be homolytically cleaved by UV photons to form singlet O radicals, which were part of the reaction mixture. Based on the isotope composition of the released Pi and the deduced relative contributions of ambient water oxygen and atmospheric oxygen, models to account for the possible C-P bond breaking mechanisms and to calculate the oxygen isotope composition of the original P-moiety of the phosphonates were developed and the latter could find useful application in tracing pollution sources of the phosphonates in the environment. Acid phosphatase hydrolyzed all phosphomonoesters (except phytic acid) with approximately 25% incorporation of ambient waters oxygen meaning that the enzyme activity only catalyzed the cleavage of the P-O bond of the phospho-ester linkage and, except for glucose-6-phosphate, the enzyme had positive fractionation effect which implies that the enzyme preferential favored the incorporation of heavier 18O oxygen isotope over the lighter 16O oxygen isotope. Although a previous work involving alkaline phosphatase shows P-O bond cleavage just as noted for the acid phosphatase, it however had negative fractionation effects implying a preferential favor for light oxygen isotope incorporation. The Phytase enzyme showed a different catalytic effect with approximately 16% of incorporation of ambient water oxygen into the released phosphate, which implies that the hydrolysis followed a mixed cleavage of both the C-O and P-O bonds of the phospho-ester C-O-P bond, a stark difference in its enzymatic action from other phosphomonoesterases studied so far. However, as a low pH optimal phosphomonoesterase it had a much more positive fractionation effect. This observation insinuates a correlation between optimal activity pH of phosphomonoesterases to their isotopic effects in the hydrolysis of phosphomonoesters (i.e. acid phosphomonoesterases show positive fractionation effects while alkaline phosphomonoesterases show negative fractionation effects). The almost neutral fractionation effects observed for glucose-6-phosphate could be due to its structural conformation, which may have influenced 50:50 chance for the incorporation of both oxygen isotopes. ::: Separate incubation of four bacteria strain (B. subtilis, E. coli, P. fluorescens and P. stutzeri) in modified Davis medium using the phosphonates as sole P sources shows all four bacteria grew and metabolized the phosphonates by the cleavage of the C-P bond as evident by the gradual increase of Pi in the growth medium over the incubation period. Phosphonoacetic acid proved to be a preferred substrate over glyphosate. The observation could be, on the one hand, attributed to the nutrient advantage of phosphonoacetic acid with its acetate metabolite obtained after the C-P bond cleavage possibly serving as a supplementary carbon source that further stimulated the bacterial growth or, on the other hand, glyphosate possibly imposing some toxic effects that inhibited the bacterial growth. The gram-negative bacteria E. coli, P. fluorescens and P. stutzeri previously profiled to possess C-P lyase genes showed enhanced phosphonate metabolism over the gram-positive bacteria, B. subtilis. Pi concentrations in the media were however very low to permit Pi extraction for oxygen isotope analysis, which makes it impossible to compare or contrast phosphonate degradation mechanisms by the various bacteria. The growth and metabolic curves obtained by OD measurements and microcalorimetry respectively showed longer lag phases for all bacteria, which indicate adaptation and preparation to utilizing the phosphonates as phosphate sources. Metabolic parameters obtained from microcalorimetric monitoring of the bacterial showed similar trends observed from the growth curves. ::: ::: From the foregoing, this work has attempted to elucidate the reaction mechanisms of selected naturally mediated degradation processes of two classes of organophosphorus (OP) compounds and lends support to the possible application of oxygen isotope composition (δ18Op) of released inorganic phosphate from such processes as tracing signatures of OP pollution in the environment. The results do not only offer additional information on P-cycling in the environment, but are also crucial in developing effective environmental remediation, abatement strategies, and predictive models regarding OPs.
5-(Phosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole and a number of related tetrazoles have been prepared and their effects on the replication of Herpes Simplex Viruses-1 and -2 have been investigated as well as their abilities to inhibit the DNA polymerases induced by these viruses and the RNA transcriptase activity of influenza virus A. Contrary to an earlier report, 5-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole was not an efficient inhibitor of the replication of HSV-1 and HSV-2 in tissue culture. Analogues of 5-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole were also devoid of significant antiviral activity. Only 5-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole and 5-(thiophosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole inhibited the influenza virus transcriptase, and both were more effective as inhibitors than phosphonoacetic acid under the same conditions. The DNA polymerases induced by HSV-1 and HSV-2 were inhibited slightly by 5-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole and to a lesser extent by its N-ethyl analogue and 3-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole. None of these compounds were as effective as phosphonoacetic acid. 5-(Thiophosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole was a better inhibitor of the DNA polymerase induced by HSV-1 than 5-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-tetrazole.
Bacteriophage lambda protein phosphatase (lambdaPP) with Mn(2+) as the activating metal cofactor was studied using phosphatase inhibition kinetics and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy. Orthophosphate and the oxoanion analogues orthovanadate, tungstate, molybdate, arsenate, and sulfate were shown to inhibit the phosphomonoesterase activity of lambdaPP, albeit with inhibition constants (K(i)) that range over 5 orders of magnitude. In addition, small organic anions were tested as inhibitors. Phosphonoacetohydroxamic acid (PhAH) was found to be a strong competitive inhibitor (K(i) = 5.1 +/- 1.6 microM) whereas phosphonoacetic acid (K(i) = 380 +/- 45 microM) and acetohydroxamic acid (K(i) > 75 mM) modestly inhibited lambdaPP. Low-temperature EPR spectra of Mn(2+)-reconstituted lambdaPP in the presence of oxoanions and PhAH demonstrate that inhibitor binding decreases the spin-coupling constant, J, compared to the native enzyme. This suggests a change in the bridging interaction between Mn(2+) ions of the dimer due to protonation or replacement of a bridging ligand. Inhibitor binding also induces several spectral shifts. Hyperfine splitting characteristic of a spin-coupled (Mn(2+))(2) dimer is most prominent upon the addition of orthovanadate (K(i) = 0.70 +/- 0.20 microM) and PhAH, indicating that these inhibitors tightly interact with the (Mn(2+))(2) form of lambdaPP. These EPR and inhibition kinetic results are discussed in the context of establishing a common mechanism for the hydrolysis of phosphate esters by lambdaPP and other serine/threonine protein phosphatases.
Phosphonoacetic acid has been shown to suppress replication of DNA tumor viruses by inhibiting the activity of virus-induced DNA polymerase and consequently viral DNA synthesis. We now have evidence to show that phosphonoacetic acid inhibits also the cellular DNA polymerases alpha, beta, and gamma of L1210 cells as well as reverse transcriptases of two type C viruses. Particularly, the DNA polymerase alpha is just as sensitive as the herpes virus induced DNA polymerase. The DNA polymerases beta and gamma required seven times more phosphonoacetic acid for a 50% inhibition of their activities. Phosphonoacetic acid inhibited the activities of the reverse transcriptase and terminal deoxyribonucleotidyltransferase only at higher concentrations. Kinetic analysis with the DNA polymerase alpha showed that the compound is a non-competitive inhibitor with respect to the substrates and uncompetitive inhibitor with the activated DNA template. Studies on time course of phosphonoacetic acid inhibition revealed that the compound is inhibitory even after the initiation of DNA synthesis. Phosphonoacetic acid also inhibited cell growth as well as the type C virus production; at concentrations above 50 microgram/ml, the inhibitory effect was more profound on the type C virus production than on cell growth.
Phosphonoacetic acid specifically inhibited human cytomegalovirus DNA synthesis in virus-infected human fibroblasts as detected by virus-specific nucleic acid hybridization. Inhibition was reversible; viral DNA synthesis resumed upon the removal of the drug. The compound partially inhibited DNA synthesis of host cells in the log phase of growth but had little effect on confluent cells. Studies of partially purified enzymes indicated that phosphonoacetic acid specifically inhibited virus-induced DNA polymerase and had only a slight effect on normal host cell enzymes. The drug was shown to interact directly with virus-induced enzyme but not with the template-primers.
Abstract We investigated interactions of phosphonoformic acid (PFA), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and other phosphonyl derivatives with the Na+ gradient [Na+ extravesicular greater than Na+ intravesicular; Nao+ greater than Na+i]-dependent transport system for phosphate (Pi) in renal cortical brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV). PFA and PAA inhibited in a dose-dependent manner the Na+ gradient [Na+o greater than Na+i]-dependent uptake of Pi by rat kidney BBMV. PFA was a more potent inhibitor than PAA while phosphonopropionic acid, hydroxymethylphosphonic acid, and phenylphosphonic acid had no effect on Pi transport. The inhibitory effect of PFA was competitive (Ki approximately equal to 4.6 X 10(-4) M) and reversible upon dilution. The uptake of Pi by BBMV in the absence of Na+ gradient [Nao+ = Na+i] was also inhibited by PFA. The PFA had no effect on uptake of L-[3H]proline, D-[3H]glucose, or 22Na+ by BBMV nor did it alter intravesicular volume of BBMV. The relative (%) extent of inhibition by PFA was not altered by changes in the extravesicular pH or changes in the steepness of the Na+ gradient [Nao+ greater than Na+i]. The inhibition of PFA was analogous in renal BBMV from rats, mice, rabbits, or dogs. Unlike other known inhibitors of brush border membrane (BBM) transport of Pi, e.g. arsenate, NAD, and ethane-1-hydroxy-1,1-diphosphonate, PFA and PAA had no inhibitory effect on BBM-bound or solubilized alkaline phosphatase. Also, PFA did not interfere with the activity of renal cortical (Na-K)ATPase. Administration of PFA (0.5 g/kg/day, intraperitoneally) to thyroparathyroidectomized rats fed a low Pi diet elicited an increase in urinary excretion of Pi, but did not change the excretion of Na+, K, and Ca2+. The results show that the PFA, and to a lesser degree PAA, are specific competitive inhibitors of the Na+-Pi cotransport in renal cortical BBM and are suitable probes for studies of this transport system.
The UL56 gene product of herpes simplex virus (HSV) has been shown to play an important role in viral pathogenicity. However, the properties and functions of the UL56 protein are little understood. We raised rabbit polyclonal antisera specific for the UL56 protein of HSV type 2 (HSV-2) and examined its expression and properties. The gene product was identified as three polypeptides with apparent molecular masses ranging from 32 to 35 kDa in HSV-2-infected cells, and at least one species was phosphorylated. Studies of their origins showed that the UL56 protein of HSV-2 is also translated from the upstream in-frame methionine codon that is not present in the HSV-1 genome. Synthesis was first detected at 6 h postinfection and was not abolished by the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Indirect immunofluorescence studies revealed that the UL56 protein localized to both the Golgi apparatus and cytoplasmic vesicles in HSV-2-infected and single UL56-expressing cells. Deletion mutant analysis showed that the C-terminal hydrophobic region of the protein was required for association with the cytoplasmic membrane and that the N-terminal proline-rich region was important for its translocation to the Golgi apparatus and cytoplasmic vesicles. Moreover, the results of protease digestion assays and sucrose gradient fractionation strongly suggested that UL56 is a tail-anchored type II membrane protein associated with lipid rafts. We thus hypothesized that the UL56 protein, as a tail-anchored type II membrane protein, may be involved in vesicular trafficking in HSV-2-infected cells.
Pulsed-field agarose gel electrophoresis showed that fragmentation of chromosomal DNA in Raji cells was induced by infection with the P3HR-1 strain of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). S1 nuclease treatment of the agarose plugs containing cells suggested that the majority of DNA fragments did not contain single-strand gaps. Chromosomal DNA fragmentation was inhibited by cycloheximide, indicating that protein synthesis was required for DNA fragmentation. Phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of EBV DNA polymerase, did not inhibit fragmentation of chromosomal DNA. These findings suggest that EBV-specific early proteins participate in fragmentation of chromosomal DNA. Chromosomal DNA of P3HR-1 cells was also fragmented by treatment with n-butyrate plus 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), which induced activation of latent EBV genome following viral replication. In addition, fragmentation of DNA preceded cell death during lytic infection. These results suggest that fragmentation of chromosomal DNA is generally induced during EBV replication and probably contributes to the cytopathic effect of EBV. The role of DNA fragmentation in death of infected cells is discussed in relation to apoptosis.
A hybrid cell line (Cl-51) producing an anti-capsid antibody was obtained by fusion of mouse myeloma cells with spleen cells from mice immunized with purified P3HR-1 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Immunofluorescence showed that the Cl-51 antibody reacted with the cytoplasm and the nucleus of P3HR-1 and B95-8 cells, but not with Raji, BJAB, Molt-4, and superinfected Raji cells in the presence of cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). The viable P3HR-1 and B95-8 cells were not stained nor was the viral infectivity neutralized. The Cl-51 antibody immunoprecipitated 123,000 and 120,000 dalton polypeptides of P3HR-1 and B95-8 cells, respectively, and both were sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid. Specific reactions were not evident with extracts of Raji cells and superinfected Raji cells in the presence of Ara-C. An analysis of the purified virus particles showed that this antibody recognized a capsid component of EBV.
Phosphonoacetic acid and phosphonoformate were examined as inhibitors ofHerpesvirus sylvilagus replication in cultured cells. Both drugs produced significant inhibition at a minimum concentration of 25 micrograms per milliliter.
The 65-kilodalton DNA-binding protein (65KDBP) of herpes simplex virus type 1, encoded by gene UL42, is required for herpes simplex virus origin-dependent DNA replication (C.A. Wu, N.J. Nelson, D.J. McGeoch, and M.D. Challberg, J. Virol. 62:435-443, 1988). We found by indirect immunofluorescence with monoclonal antibody to 65KDBP that the protein was first detectable at 3 h postinfection. It localized first to the inner periphery of the nucleus, but accumulated in large globular compartments within the nucleus by 6 h postinfection in a pattern similar to that displayed by the major DNA-binding protein ICP8. Immune electron microscopy revealed that 65KDBP was associated with the marginated heterochromatin at the early times, but migrated further into the nucleus at late times when the only discernible areas devoid of 65KDBP were the nucleoli and heterochromatin. The 65KDBP gene is a member of the beta kinetic class as determined by the ability of the mRNA to be expressed at significant levels even in the absence of viral DNA synthesis. Furthermore, in the presence or absence of the DNA polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid, the patterns of accumulation of protein as well as mRNA were virtually indistinguishable from those displayed by the model beta genes encoding ICP8 and thymidine kinase. Nuclear run-on experiments demonstrated that maximum rates of 65KDBP gene transcription occurred prior to the maximum rate of progeny viral DNA synthesis and confirmed that the expression of the 65KDBP gene is regulated at the level of transcriptional initiation.
At present, there is no drug marketed in the United States for the treatment of herpes simplex, except for idoxuridine for the treatment of herpetic keratitis. The recent enthusiasm for the use of heterocyclice fluorescent dyes in conjunction with exposure to light (photodynamic inactivation) has diminished, and the efficacy of all available topical measures is being questioned. Of the numerous antiviral drugs being investigated, the following seem to show promise: idoxuridine, adenin arabinoside, trifluorothymidine, phosphonoacetic acid, and ribavirin. There are no vaccines available. Measures to stimulate immune response concern the use of levamisole hydrochloride, Interferon, Inosiplex and Transfer factor. Only adenine arabinoside will be available in the near future, and then only to serious life threatening infections. The marketing of other medications is several years in the future.
Red sea bream iridovirus (RSIV) has been identified as the causative agent of a serious disease in red sea bream and at least 30 other marine fish species. We developed a viral DNA microarray containing 92 putative open reading frames of RSIV to monitor the viral gene transcription program over the time course of an in vitro infection and to classify RSIV transcripts into temporal kinetic expression classes. The microarray analysis showed that viral genes commenced expression as early as 3 h postinfection (p.i.) and this was followed by a rapid escalation of gene expression from 8 h p.i. onwards. Based on the expression of some enzymes associated with viral DNA replication, the DNA replication of RSIV appeared to begin at around 8 h p.i. in infected cells in vitro. Using a de novo protein synthesis inhibitor (cycloheximide) and a viral DNA replication inhibitor (phosphonoacetic acid), 87 RSIV transcripts could be classified into three temporal kinetic classes: nine immediate-early (IE), 40 early (E), and 38 late (L) transcripts. The gene expression of RSIV occurred in a temporal kinetic cascade with three stages (IE, E, and L). Although the three classes of transcripts were distributed throughout the RSIV genome, E transcripts appeared to cluster in at least six discrete regions and L transcripts appeared to originate from seven discrete regions. The microarray data were statistically confirmed by using a t test, and were also clustered into groups based on similarity in the gene expression patterns by using a cluster program.
Phosphonoacetic acid specifically inhibited human cytomegalovirus DNA synthesis in virus-infected human fibroblasts as detected by virus-specific nucleic acid hybridization. Inhibition was reversible; viral DNA synthesis resumed upon the removal of the drug. The compound partially inhibited DNA synthesis of host cells in the log phase of growth but had little effect on confluent cells.
Studies ofpartially purified enzymes indicated that phosphonoacetic acid specifically inhibited virus-induced DNA polymerase and had only a slight effect on normal host cell enzymes. The drug was shown to interact directly with virusinduced enzyme but not with the template-primers.
In random screening of chemical compounds, Shipkowitz et al. (12) showed that phosphonoa-OH 0 1 17 cetic acid[HO-P-H2C-OH] appeared to be 0 very active against herpes dermatitis in mice and herpes keratitis in rabbits. In addition they have shown that replication of herpes simplex virus and viral DNA is impeded by phosphonoacetic acid and the drug seems to have little effect on host cell function (8, 9). The suggestion has been made that inhibition involves the specific recognition of herpes simplex virus-induced DNA polymerase (8).
Infection of WI-38 human fibroblasts with human cytomegalovirus (CMV) led to the stimulation of host cell DNA polymerase synthesis and induction of a new virus-specific DNA polymerase (6). This new CMV-induced DNA polymerase has been purified and separated from host cell enzymes by DEAE-cellulose and phosphocellulose-chromatography. Based on the availability of the partially purified CMV-induced and host cell DNA polymerases (6), and the availability ofCMV-specific 3H-labeled complementary RNA for quantitation of viral DNA (7), we have been able to observe in detail the effect of phosphonoacetic acid on human CMV replication and demonstrate specific inhibition of viral DNA replication and virus-induced DNA polymerase activity.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) solution. The stock solution of PAA (Bodman Chemical, Richmond) was prepared in distilled water at a concentration of 20 mg/ml, adjusted to pH 7.4 with 1 N NaOH, and sterilized by filtration through membrane filters (Millipore Corp. (10 , uCi/ml; specific activity, 45 Ci/mM; Nuclear Dynamics) for 60 min at various times after subculture. After each 60-min labeling period, the cell cultures were washed three times with cold TBS (0.05 M Tris-hydrochloride, pH 7.4, 0.15 M NaCl) and lysed with 3 ml of 1% sodium dodecyl sulfate buffer solution (1% sodium lauryl sulfate, 0.01 M Tris-hydrochloride, pH 7.8, and 0.01 M EDTA). The lysates were collected and precipitated with ice-cold trichloroacetic acid (final concentration of 5%) and passed through membrane filters. After extensive washing with 5% trichloroacetic acid, the filters were dried and counted in a liquid scintillation counter.
KSHV gene expression varies during lytic and latent virus replication. Sarid et al. (27) defined three classes of mRNAs in the KSHV-infected PEL cell line BC-1 related to expression patterns during latency and lytic replication. Class I KSHV mRNAs are expressed during latency and not upregulated by agents such as 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Class II mRNAs are detected in untreated cell cultures but are substantially increased after TPA treatment. Finally, class III mRNAs are detected only in TPA-treated cultures and correspond to "traditional" lytic gene classes. Genes induced by either sodium butyrate or TPA have also been classified by Sun et al. (30) as immediate-early, early, or late genes. Immediate-early genes are those genes that do not require de novo expression of viral transactivator proteins during lytic replication and are resistant to cycloheximide treatment. Early gene transcription is sensitive to cycloheximide but resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a viral DNA polymerase inhibitor. Late genes are characterized by sensitivity to both cycloheximide and PAA and include many structural and replication genes. Similar analyses using DNA microarrays have allowed simultaneous comparisons of KSHV transcription patterns (6, 15, 20) .
Prior studies have shown that susceptible strains of mice, such as the BALB/ c, sustain transiently suppressed T cell function as a consequence of infection by a natural route with the JHM strain of MHV [13, 14, 33, 36] . An important issue pertaining to the mechanism responsible for this immunosuppression is whether virus replication is required for its induction. Studies with other viruses have yielded varying results. Measles virus-associated inhibition of mitogendriven proliferation and immunoglobulin production is eliminated when UVor heat-inactivated virus is used [24, 26] . The immunosuppressive variant of the parvovirus, minute virus of mice, did not inhibit the appearance of cytotoxic T cells in mixed lymphocyte cultures if used in the form of UV-inactivated virus or purified viral capsids [15] . Live Newcastle disease virus, which does not achieve a full replication cycle in murine cells, induced suppressed concanavalin A (Con A)-driven and allogeneic responses in mice, whereas UV-inactivated virus did not [11] . In contrast, inhibition of the poxvirus DNA polymerase with phosphonoacetic acid did not affect the ability of malignant rabbit fibroma virus to suppress lymphocyte proliferation or initiation of antibody production [37] . Proliferation of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells stimulated by either Con A or interleukin (IL) 2 was inhibited by bovine herpesvirus 1, although less than 0.1% of the cells were productively infected [8] . In a model system using human peripheral blood lymphocytes and vesicular stomatitis virus, Sendal virus, Friend leukemia virus, herpes virus types 1 and 2, or a battery of avian retroviruses known to be incapable of entering and infecting human lymphocytes, both live and UV-inactivated viruses abrogated proliferative responses both to mitogens (Con A and phytohemagglutinin) and allogeneic cells [27, 39, 40] . Thus, the ability of replication-defective virus to alter immune function is unpredictable.
Background: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) exhibits both lytic and latent (Lat. I, II, and III) phases in an infected individual. It's during the latent phase of EBV that all EBV-associated cancers, including Burkitt's lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma and lymphoproliferative disease arise. Interferon-γ-inducible protein 16 (IFI16) is a well-established innate immune sensor and viral transcriptional regulator involved in response to invading DNA viruses. During latency, IFI16 remains in the nucleus, in part bound to the EBV genome; however, neither its role in EBV lytic cycle or latency has been established. Methods: Short interfering RNA against IFI16 and IFI16 overexpression were used to identify the role of IFI16 in the maintenance of EBV latency I. We also studied how induction of the lytic cycle affected IFI16 using the EBV positive, latently infected Akata or MUTU-1 cell lines. Akata cells were induced with TPA and MUTU-1 cells with TGF-β up to 96 h and changes in IFI16 protein were analyzed by Western blotting and immunofluorescence microscopy. To assess the mechanism of IFI16 decrease, EBV DNA replication and late lytic transcripts were blocked using the viral DNA polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid.
On simulating infection caused by different herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) variants responsive and unresponsive to the drugs acyclovir and phosphonoacetic acid in the cultured Vero and C6 cells has revealed the higher ability of target cells to accumulate 5-aminolevulenic acid (ALA)-induced endogenous porphyrins, which determines the selectivity of their photo damages. Optimal conditions have been defined for all the studied HSV-1 variants to show a virus-inhibiting effect upon photodynamic exposure of infected and ALA-treated cell cultures.
Solid-state {sup 31}P and {sup 13}C NMR spectra of uniaxially oriented films of layered zirconium bis(phosphonoacetic acid) are discussed. Prior determination of the {sup 31}P phosphonate and {sup 13}C carboxyl chemical shielding tensors in Zr(O{sub 3}PCH{sub 2}COOH){sub 2} allowed for quantitative interpretation of the chemical shift frequencies exhibited in these spectra. Structural details of the organic pendant group are elucidated by analyzing the oriented chemical shift frequency in terms of its dependence on the orientation of the chemical shielding principal axes in the static magnetic field. In Zr(O{sub 3}PCH{sub 2}COOH){sub 2}, the P-C bond was determined to lie perpendicular to the inorganic layers, and the P-C-C-O dihedral angle was calculated as 90 {+-} 15{degrees}.
– The effect of a single subcutaneous injection of different dosages of phosphonoformic or phosphonoacetic acid on the developing dental tissues of the rat molar was studied. The substances were injected at different rat ages and effects on the developing teeth were analyzed by means of histochemistry of frozen sections and scanning electron microscopy. Molars of rats injected at the age of 10 or 15 days showed no pathologic changes. Administration of phosphonoacetic acid in a dosage of 10 or 20 mg P/kg b.w. had no demonstrable effect on the dental tissues in any of the animals. Phosphonoformic or phosphonoacetic acid in a dosage of 10 or 30 mg P/kg b.w. respectively induced subameloblastic cysts 24 h after injection to 4–7-day-old rats. The cysts were mainly localized on the mesial sides of the cusps under ameloblasts in the late secretory stage. Calcified depositions were seen in the ameloblastic layer lining the cystic cavities. A thin zone, the staining of which indicated a high mineral content, was seen in. the outermost enamel layer under the cysts, A few days later, enamel hypoplasias were seen in areas previously occupied by cysts. A lightly stained line was observed in the enamel matrix demarcating the amount of enamel matrix formed before and after the injection. Hypoplastic lesions were also noted in the enamel surface of newly erupted molars. These findings suggest that the two injected monophosphonates can induce pathologic changes in the developing enamel organ and hypoplasias in the enamel.
The notion that substrate affinity is modified via interaction of effector ligands is a fundamental characteristic of allostery. In order to further understand the complexities of this phenomenon, this study investigates the role that functional groups in phospho-enol-pyruvate PEP play in ligand binding and allosteric propagation. Thermodynamic linkage analysis enables the nature and magnitude of allostery to be determined, allowing allosteric action to be distinguished from allosteric ligand binding affinity. By using this type of analysis to compare the inhibition caused by PEP to the inhibition imposed by PEP analogs upon binding to E. coli PFK (EcPFK), the importance of specific functional groups of PEP to ligand binding and/or allostery can be ascertained. EcPFK displays a much weaker binding affinity for the PEP analog phosphoglycolate (PG) compared to PEP. However, PG is still able to inhibit EcPFK to an extent comparable to that of PEP. This finding suggests that the methylene group that is absent in PG plays a larger role in ligand binding than in allosteric propagation. The chemical structure of phosphonoacetic acid (PA) is very similar to that of PG except for the deletion of the oxygen that bridges the phosphate group to the rest of the molecule. When the inhibition of EcPFK by PA is examined, a binding affinity comparable to PG is observed but a substantial loss in allostery is also observed. These data suggest that the bridging oxygen in PEP contributes substantially to the propagation of allosteric signal. Funding is provided by NIH grant GM33261 and Welch Foundation grant A1543.
Inhibition of type-1 herpes simplex strains resistant to acyclovir, phosphonoacetic acid and their combination by combined use of three drugs with different mechanisms of action capable of suppressing reproduction of the acyclovir resistant strain was studied. The combinations used were the following: Ara-A + ribavirin + phosphonoformic acid, Xylo-A + ribavirin + phosphonoformic acid and Ph-ACH + Ara-A + ribavirin. The former two combinations had a synergistic action on the standard strain L2 whose drug susceptibility had not undergone changes as well as on the acyclovir resistant strain. As for the strain resistant to phosphonoacetic acid and to acyclovir + phosphonoacetic acid the effect was additive. Ph-ACH + Ara-A + ribavirin had a marked synergistic action on all the strains tested.
We previously reported that herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) can activate the stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) p38 and JNK. In the present study, we undertook a comprehensive and comparative analysis of the requirements for viral protein synthesis in the activation of JNK and p38. Infection with the UL36 mutant tsB7 or with UV-irradiated virus indicated that both JNK and p38 activation required viral gene expression. Cycloheximide reversal or phosphonoacetic acid treatment of wild-type virus-infected cells as well as infection with the ICP4 mutant vi13 indicated that only the immediate-early class of viral proteins were required for SAPK activation. Infection with ICP4, ICP27, or ICP0 mutant viruses indicated that only ICP27 was necessary. Additionally, we determined that in the context of virus infection ICP27 was sufficient for SAPK activation and activation of the p38 targets Mnk1 and MK2 by infecting with mutants deleted for various combinations of immediate-early proteins. Specifically, the d100 (0−/4−) and d103 (4−/22−/47−) mutants activated p38 and JNK, while the d106 (4−/22−/27−/47−) and d107 (4−/27−) mutants did not. Finally, infections with a series of ICP27 mutants demonstrated that the functional domain of ICP27 required for activation was located in the region encompassing amino acids 20 to 65 near the N terminus of the protein and that the C-terminal transactivation activity of ICP27 was not necessary.
Ultrastructural analysis of HSB-2 T-lymphoid cells and human cord blood mononuclear cells infected with human herpesvirus 6 revealed the presence, in the cell cytoplasm, of annulate lamellae (AL), which were absent in uninfected cells. Time course analysis of the appearance of AL following viral infection showed that no AL were visible within the first 72 h postinfection and that their formation correlated with the expression of the late viral glycoprotein gp116. The requirement of active viral replication for AL neoformation was further confirmed by experiments using inactivated virus or performed in presence of the viral DNA polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Both conventional electron microscopic examination and immunogold fracture labeling with anti-endoplasmic reticulum antibodies indicated a close relationship of AL with the endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear membranes. However, when the freeze-fractured cells were immunogold labeled with an anti-gp116 monoclonal antibody, AL membranes were densely labeled, whereas nuclear membranes and endoplasmic reticulum cisternae appeared virtually unlabeled, showing that viral envelope glycoproteins selectively accumulate in AL. In addition, gold labeling with Helix pomatia lectin and wheat germ agglutinin indicated that AL cisternae, similar to cis-Golgi membranes, contain intermediate, but not terminal, forms of glycoconjugates. Taken together, these results suggest that in this cell-virus system, AL function as a viral glycoprotein storage compartment and as a putative site of O-glycosylation. Annulate lamellae (AL) are stacks of narrow membrane cisternae that are often disposed in parallel, are usually localized in the cell cytoplasm, and contain numerous pore complexes (20). They are frequently seen as extensions of rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) cisternae, implying a strict relationship between the two membrane compartments. However, the presence on AL of pore complexes similar in structure and composition to those present on nuclear membranes (23) and the recent observation that AL are disassembled and assembled during mitosis concomitantly with the nuclear membranes (11) argue for a greater similarity of AL to the nuclear envelope. Initially considered to be an ultrastructural characteristic of rapidly growing germ and tumor cells, they seem more likely to be cell type specific and represent one of the last cellular organelles with no specific assigned function. The presence of AL in virus-infected cells has also been reported, but their possible relationship to the infection process has not been investigated (20).
The effects of three closely related phosphonate compounds on several photosynthetic activities of isolated chloroplasts were investigated. Phosphonoformic and phosphonopropionic acid were found to inhibit both CO(2) fixation and the reduction of 3-phosphoglyceric acid, with CO(2) fixation being more sensitive. In contrast, phosphonoacetic acid was only slightly inhibitory. The lack of inhibition appeared to be due to its inability to enter the stroma via the phosphate translocator. Measurements of changes in stromal metabolite levels following the inhibition of CO(2) fixation by either phosphonoformic or phosphonopropionic acid indicated that the activity of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase was reduced. Studies with the isolated enzyme confirmed that both of these compounds were effective competitive inhibitors of the carboxylase activity of the enzyme.
The antiviral agent phosphonoacetic acid inhibits growth of Tetrahymena thermophila at concentrations comparable to those inhibiting growth of other eukaryotic cells, with 50% inhibition at 0.5 mM phosphonoacetic acid. The compound is cytotoxk to Tetrahymena at concentrations greater than 2.0 mM. When a culture of Tetrahymena the growth of which was totally inhibited by 2.0 mM phosphonoacetic acid was diluted with fresh medium, growth resumed in an exponential, rather than synchronous, fashion. [2–14C]phosphonoacetic acid is not metabolized by Tetrahymena.
Acyclovir (ACV) has been shown to inhibit the replication of herpes simplex virus (HSV) in vitro. We examined a wide variety of HSV clinical isolates for the presence of naturally occurring ACV-resistant (ACVr) variants. Although the ACV doses that inhibited 50% of these isolates were within the range of doses inhibiting 50% of the ACV-susceptible wild-type strains, we successfully isolated variants resistant to high ACV concentrations (25 to 75 microM) from each virion population even in the absence of prior drug exposure. Furthermore, we demonstrated, by fluctuation analysis of two encephalitis strains, that the ACVr variants were clonally distributed in the virus populations before exposure to ACV and did not result from rapid adaptation to ACV. All variants isolated after a single exposure to a high dose of ACV were true ACVr variants, as demonstrated by their plating efficiencies in the presence of ACV. We found that 36 and 50% of the ACVr variants of the two strains examined in detail displayed plating efficiencies in phosphonoacetic acid of greater than 0.1, possibly indicating that many of the ACVr variants contained alterations in the DNA polymerase gene locus. Because the distribution of ACVr variants in natural populations is relatively high (10(-4), these results suggest that selection of ACVr strains during ACV therapy is possible.
We investigated the influence of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) replication cycle on natural killing (NK) activity and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) against EBV-infected cells. Peripheral blood lymphocytes from healthy EBV-seropositive and -seronegative donors were separated on Ficoll-Hypaque gradients and used as effector cells in the standard 51Cr release assay to measure NK and ADCC. EBV-genome positive RAJI and DAUDI cells superinfected with either the non-transforming P3HR-1 EBV or the transforming B95-8 EBV were used as targets. The results obtained show that most normal individuals have ADCC and NK activity against P3HR-1 EBV-infected RAJI cells. Both the cytotoxic activities increased with the proportional increase in effector/target (E/T) ratios, assay incubation time, dose of the infecting virus and the time of pre-infection with EBV. Moreover, the data obtained indicate that different immune mechanisms are effective at different stages of the virus replication cycle. During the early stages of virus replication, EBV-superinfected cells are more susceptible to ADCC than to NK, whereas in later stages the susceptibility to NK is increased significantly and appears to play a more dominant role. The nature of the target cells or the strain of EBV used to superinfect these targets did not influence their susceptibility to ADCC and NK activity; however some quantitative differences were found. Using metabolic inhibitors such as cytosine arabinoside, phosphonoacetic acid, actinomycin D, cycloheximide and puromycin, it was found that new DNA synthesis is not essential but some RNA and protein synthesis is necessary, late in the viral cycle, for the superinfected cells to become susceptible to NK and ADCC.
The bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase (pol) and the closely related RB69 DNA pol have been developed into model enzymes to study family B DNA pols. While all family B DNA pols have similar structures and share conserved protein motifs, the molecular mechanism underlying natural drug resistance of nonherpes family B DNA pols and drug sensitivity of herpes DNA pols remains unknown. In the present study, we constructed T4 phages containing G466S, Y460F, G466S/Y460F, P469S, and V475W mutations in DNA pol. These amino acid substitutions replace the residues in drug-resistant T4 DNA pol with residues found in drug-sensitive herpes family DNA pols. We investigated whether the T4 phages expressing the engineered mutant DNA pols were sensitive to the antiviral drug phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and characterized the in vivo replication fidelity of the phage DNA pols. We found that G466S substitution marginally increased PAA sensitivity, whereas Y460F substitution conferred resistance. The phage expressing a double muta...
Ultrastructural analysis of HSB-2 T-lymphoid cells and human cord blood mononuclear cells infected with human herpesvirus 6 revealed the presence, in the cell cytoplasm, of annulate lamellae (AL), which were absent in uninfected cells. Time course analysis of the appearance of AL following viral infection showed that no AL were visible within the first 72 h postinfection and that their formation correlated with the expression of the late viral glycoprotein gp116. The requirement of active viral replication for AL neoformation was further confirmed by experiments using inactivated virus or performed in presence of the viral DNA polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid. Both conventional electron microscopic examination and immunogold fracture labeling with anti-endoplasmic reticulum antibodies indicated a close relationship of AL with the endoplasmic reticulum and nuclear membranes. However, when the freeze-fractured cells were immunogold labeled with an anti-gp116 monoclonal antibody, AL membranes were densely labeled, whereas nuclear membranes and endoplasmic reticulum cisternae appeared virtually unlabeled, showing that viral envelope glycoproteins selectively accumulate in AL. In addition, gold labeling with Helix pomatia lectin and wheat germ agglutinin indicated that AL cisternae, similar to cis-Golgi membranes, contain intermediate, but not terminal, forms of glycoconjugates. Taken together, these results suggest that in this cell-virus system, AL function as a viral glycoprotein storage compartment and as a putative site of O-glycosylation.
The effects of three closely related phosphonate compounds on several photosynthetic activities of isolated chloroplasts were investigated. Phosphonoformic and phosphonopropionic acid were found to inhibit both CO2 fixation and the reduction of 3-phosphoglyceric acid, with CO2 fixation being more sensitive. In contrast, phosphonoacetic acid was only slightly inhibitory. The lack of inhibition appeared to be due to its inability to enter the stroma via the phosphate translocator. Measurements of changes in stromal metabolite levels following the inhibition of CO2 fixation by either phosphonoformic or phosphonopropionic acid indicated that the activity of ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase was reduced. Studies with the isolated enzyme confirmed that both of these compounds were effective competitive inhibitors of the carboxylase activity of the enzyme.
Acyclovir (ACV) has been shown to inhibit the replication of herpes simplex virus (HSV) in vitro. We examined a wide variety of HSV clinical isolates for the presence of naturally occurring ACV-resistant (ACVD) (4, 6, 18) . The specificity of action of ACV is based on the ability of the herpesvirus-specified thymidine kinase (TK) to phosphorylate the drug, which can then be converted to its active form, acycloguanosine triphosphate. Cellular TK, however, can phosphorylate ACV only inefficiently (6, 12) . The acycloguanosine triphosphate form inhibits viral DNA synthesis at the level of the viral DNA polymerase, which allows the drug to become incorporated into growing DNA chains and thereby effect chain termination (6, 11). Resistance to ACV can arise because of alterations in the herpes simplex virus (HSV) genes encoding either TK or DNA polymerase (1, 19). Viral TK gene mutations which result in resistance to ACV may be due to the loss of production of an active TK (1, 8, 19) or to the production of a TK with altered substrate specificity (7). Because the viral DNA polymerase gene is essential (14), alterations in its locus most likely lead to the production of a DNA polymerase with altered substrate or allosteric effector specificity. This is most evident by the fact that some ACV-resistant (ACVr) mutants which are TK+ are also resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a competitive inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase (15), although the actual loci for ACV and PAA resistances may be separable (2, 10). In the laboratory, it is possible to derive ACV' mutants by growing HSV in the presence of ACV. In most instances, relatively low ACV concentrations (<10 puM) have been used to maintain selective pressure, resulting in the generation of mutants with alterations in the expression of the HSV TK phenotype (ACVr-TK mutants [1, 19] ). It has been demonstrated that many clinical isolates and laboratory strains of HSV are capable of plaque formation in 10 ,uM ACV without prior drug exposure (21). However, the investigators did not conclusively determine whether the virus within the plaques represented true, naturally occurring, ACV-resistant HSV mutants. In this study, we examined a variety of clinical HSV isolates that were passaged minimally in the laboratory without selective pressure and were isolated from patients with herpes simplex encephalitis or oral or genital HSV lesions. Although the 50% inhibitory doses (ID50) for the wild-type populations did not vary substantially from those for ACVsusceptible laboratory strains, we demonstrated 71
Fourth, investigations of drug-resistant mutants should abet the functional subdivision of viral genes. Mutations conferring drug-resistance are likely to affect sites on drug targets which interact with the drugs. Dissection of the function of the HSV DNA polymerase by analysis of such * Corresponding author. mutations has begun. For example, intratypic marker rescue and transfer experiments have mapped mutations in two mutants of strain KOS, PAA'5 and tsD9, which confer differing degrees of resistance to the pyrophosphate analog, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and to acyclovir (ACG), a nucleoside analog altered in its sugar moiety, to different regions in the HSV DNA polymerase (pol) locus (7). These mutations were separable from certain temperature-sensitive (ts) pol mutations (7). Interestingly, PAAr5, but not tsD9, contains a mutation conferring resistance to araA, also a nucleoside analog altered in its sugar moiety, mapping with the PAAr marker (7, 9). Other pol mutations conferring drug resistance have also been shown to be separable from various ts pol mutations (4, 5, 11, 13, 36) .
Summary ::: Simian virus 40 (SV40) DNA, inserted into a plasmid vector, does not replicate when transfected into baby hamster kidney cells. However, when the recipient cells are superinfected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), extensive amplification of the introduced plasmid occurs. Deletion of the late SV40 region or part of the coding sequences of the small tumour (t) antigen has no effect on the efficiency of amplification, whereas manipulations affecting either the SV40 origin of replication or the integrity of large tumour (T) antigen substantially decrease HSV-induced amplification. Phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of HSV DNA polymerase, strongly inhibits plasmid replication. Also, an HSV-1 mutant with a temperature-sensitive defect in the DNA polymerase gene (tsH) is unable to carry out amplification of test plasmids at the non-permissive temperature. On the other hand, a further mutant (tsS) causes SV40-plasmid amplification independent of the temperature, but this mutant fails to amplify a plasmid with an HSV origin at the non-permissive temperature. Thus, HSV-induced amplification of heterologous DNA is possible in the absence of HSV DNA replication. Since tsS putatively has a defect in the gene coding for an HSV origin-binding protein (UL9), this observation appears plausible. The implications for interaction between herpesviral replication functions and heterologous (possibly cellular) DNA sequences are discussed.
DNA synthesis in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-infected lymphocytes was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) as measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation. PAA, at a concentration of 200 microgram/ml, inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation by human umbilical cord lymphocytes infected with EBV strain P94 but had little effect on DNA synthesis in mitogen-stimulated cells. Transformed cell lines did not develop from infected cord cell cultures treated with 100 microgram of PAA per ml. Cytofluorometric analysis showed marked increases in cellular nucleic acid content (RNA plus DNA) as early as 9 days after infection of cord cells in the absence of PAA and before significant enhancement of [3H]thymidine incorporation became apparent. Moreover, EBV led to increases in cellular nucleic acid even when 200 microgram of PAA per ml was added to cell cultures before infection. The apparent discrepancy between results obtained by [3H]thymidine incorporation and cytofluorometry is explained either by significant inhibition of cellular DNA polymerases by PAA or by a block at the G2 + M phase of the cell cycle. The data suggest that EBV initiates alterations in cellular nucleic acid synthesis or cell division without prior replication of viral DNA by virus-induced DNA polymerases.
Recombinant plasmids containing African swine fever virus (ASFV) DNA fragments covering all the virus genome were transfected into infected cells in order to detect viral origins of DNA replication. Plasmid replication was monitored by sensitivity to MboI, which cleaves only replicated, unmethylated DNA, and resistance to DpnI, which cleaves only the same methylated sequence. All the recombinants replicated to a similar extent, indicating that ASFV does not use a preferred origin for DNA replication. Circular plasmids without viral inserts were also replicated, but linearized plasmids or lambda bacteriophage DNA were not replicated. Replicated plasmid DNA began to accumulate with a time course similar to viral DNA, starting between 6 and 12 hr p.i. and increasing steadily for about 18 hr. This apparent dependence on viral functions was confirmed by the sensitivity of plasmid replication to phosphonoacetic acid and resistance to aphidicolin and by the reduction of replication in cells infected with a mutant defective in DNA replication. Replicated plasmid DNA present as unit length circles and as large dimension forms, probably head-to-tail concatemers. The results of two-dimensional electrophoresis (neutral/alkaline) favor a rolling-circle mechanism for plasmid DNA replication.
The mechanism responsible for the decreased sensitivity of a clinical herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) isolate, HSV-145, to (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2′-deoxyuridine (BVDU) was examined. Measurements of 50% inhibitory doses of several drugs demonstrated that although HSV-145 was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, adenine arabinoside and acyclovir, its sensitivity to BVDU and 5-(2-chloroethyl)-2′-deoxyuridine was significantly less than that normally observed for HSV-1. Analysis of the thymidylate kinase (TMP-K) activity of HSV-145 thymidine kinase (TK) demonstrated a decreased level of TMP-K activity when compared to HSV-1 TK. The TMP-K activity of HSV-145 resembled that observed for HSV-2 and the TK-deficient strain HSV-1 TK-7. When the nucleotide sequence of the HSV-145 TK gene was compared to that of the HSV-1 strains C1(101) and SC16 a single nucleotide substitution (G changed to A at base position 502) was detected which would result in the substitution of threonine at amino acid position 168 for alanine. The substitution is the same as that for the laboratory-derived BVDU-resistant virus HSV-1 SC16B3. Collectively, these studies highlight the importance of amino acid conservation at position 168 of the HSV-1 TK in conferring efficient TMP-K activity and BVDU sensitivity.
The complete ORF54 of the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) (human herpesvirus-8; HHV-8) was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The results show that KSHV/HHV-8 ORF54 encodes a functional dUTPase which specifically hydrolyses dUTP to dUMP. Monoclonal antibodies against the HHV-8 dUTPase detected a protein with the expected molecular mass of 35 kDa in HHV-8-infected BCBL-1 cells. Induction of the lytic replication cycle of HHV-8 by treatment of BCBL-1 cells with the phorbol ester TPA resulted in an increased expression of the protein which was not inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that the protein is expressed early in the lytic replication cycle. Moreover, the sporadic expression of the HHV-8 dUTPase in tissue sections of Kaposi's sarcoma was detected by immunohistochemistry.
Infection by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is central to the pathogenesis of the endothelial neoplasm Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and is also linked to the rare B-cell tumor known as primary effusion lymphoma (PEL). Latently infected PEL cell lines can be induced to enter the lytic cycle and produce KSHV virions. However, such cells do not support de novo infection or serial propagation of KSHV. These limitations have prevented the development of systems for the genetic analysis of KSHV and have impeded a deeper understanding of KS pathogenesis. Here we show that human dermal microvascular endothelial cells immortalized by expression of telomerase can be readily infected by KSHV virions produced by PEL cells. Infection is predominantly latent, but a small subpopulation enters the lytic cycle spontaneously. Phorbol ester (tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate [TPA]) treatment of latently infected cells leads to enhanced induction of lytic KSHV replication, resulting in foci of cytopathic effect. There is no cytopathic effect or viral DNA expansion when infected TIME cells (telomerase-immortalized microvascular endothelial cells) are TPA induced in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), an inhibitor of herpesvirus replication. Supernatants from phorbol-induced cultures transfer latent KSHV infection to uninfected cells, which can likewise be induced to undergo lytic replication by TPA treatment, and the virus can be further serially transmitted. Serial passage of the virus in TIME cells is completely inhibited when TPA treatment is done in the presence of PAA. Latently infected endothelial cells do not undergo major morphological changes or growth transformation, and infection is lost from the culture upon serial passage. This behavior faithfully recapitulates the behavior of spindle cells explanted from primary KS biopsies, strongly supporting the biological relevance of this culture system. These findings suggest that either the stability or the growth-deregulatory potential of the KSHV latency program in endothelial cells is more limited than might be predicted by analogy with other oncogenic viruses.
I4, shipkowitz, N.L., Bower, R.R.,‘Appell, R.N., et al: Suppression of herpes simplex infection by phosphonoacetic acid. App! Micro 26:264-67, 1973. I5_ Wildly, P.: Herpes virus and chemotherapy: Background knowl- gdge. J. Antimicrob Chemother 3:(Suppl A) 21-22, 1977. 16. §nip§$. W.,_Person, S., Keith, A., et al: Butylated hydroxytoluene inactivates lipid-containing virus. Science l88:64-65, 1975. 17. North, N.D., Pavan-Langston,_D., and Geary, P.: Herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2: Therapeutic response to antiviral drugs. Arch Ophthalmol 94: 1019-21, 1976. Advances In The classification Of Acute Leukemia In children John J. Hutter, Jr., M.D. Lewis Glasser, M.D. Frank L. Meyskens, M.D. Recent therapeutic advances have led to an improved outlook for children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), the most common form of leukemia in children (Table 1). The development of effective combination chemotherapy regimens for both induction and mainten- ance of remission, the specific treatment of the central nervous system leukemic sanctuary early in remission and improvements in supportive care have resulted in a cur- rent disease-free, complete remission rate of greater than three years for approximately_50% of children with ALL.‘ Further refinements or improvements in therapy will occur as the result of one or more of several different _» approaches. First, further investigation into the etiology of leukemia could lead to identification of the cause of this illness and ultimately to the means to prevent it. ‘Second, improved treatment of all groups of acute leukemia might be accomplished by the development of new chemotherapeutic agents or new adjuvant measures such as immunotherapy. Such measures are being tested in ongoing clinical trials. Third, improvement in charac- terization and classification of subtypes of acute leukemia will lead to recognition of those subtypes which are very responsive to current therapeutic modalities and identifi~ cation of types resistant to current treatment for which new forms of therapy will need to be developed. An example of the latter has been the subclassification 0f ALL in children according to cell surface markers. It had previously been recognized that children with ALL Who had clinical features such as age less than 2 years or Sreater than 10 years, over 50,000/mm’ circulating 1Ymphoblasts in the peripheral blood or a mediastinal tmass tended to have a worse response to therapy than §'°'|'|: University of Arizona Health Sciences Center, Tucson. AZ 24- Dr. Hutter, Jr., Assist. Professor. Pediatrics; Dr. Glasser, Assoc. ¢P'0fessor, Pathology; Dr. Meyskens, Assist. Professor, Medicine. TABLE 1 Type of Leukemia Percentage of Cases 1. Acute lymphoblastic 80 2. Acute myelogenous 15 3. Acute monoblastic 2 4. Chronic myelogenous 3 5. Chronic lymphocytic virtually none Legend: Classification of leukemia in children less than 18 years of age by standard morphological and histochemical criteria. children who, qdid not have these parameters.‘ After T-lymphocytes were identified by their ability to form spontaneous rosettes with sheep red blood cells (E- rosettes) and B-lymphocytes by the presence of surface immunoglobulin (SIg) or by the formation of rosettes with antibody coated sheep red blood cells (EAC rosettes), the malignant lymphoblasts from children with ALL were studied by these techniques.’»‘v’ The majority of children with ALL have lymphoblasts that are predom- inantly qnull cellq; i.e. they have neither T or B surface markers detectable by the methods described above (Table II). Approximately 25% of children with ALL will have the majority of their blast cells form E-rosettes (Figure 1) which indicates that they have T-cell disease and a very small percentage have B—cell leukemia. The clinical importance of these observations is that children with qnull cellq disease have a much more favorable response to current therapy regimens as compared to those who have either T-cell or B—cell surface markers.‘ Children with T-cell leukemia also tend to have the clinical features such as a mediastinal mass and elevated white count that are associated with a poor prognosis. It is thus reasonable to treat children with qnull cellq ALL with current regimens that are effective in the majority of patients and to direct newer forms of therapy to those children whose ALL is less responsive as determined by clinical presentation and/or on the basis of detectable cell surface markers. c 345 ARIZONA MEDICINE
Simian virus 40 (SV40) DNA, inserted into a plasmid vector, does not replicate when transfected into baby hamster kidney cells. However, when the recipient cells are superinfected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), extensive amplification of the introduced plasmid occurs. Deletion of the late SV40 region or part of the coding sequences of the small tumour (t) antigen has no effect on the efficiency of amplification, whereas manipulations affecting either the SV40 origin of replication or the integrity of large tumour (T) antigen substantially decrease HSV-induced amplification. Phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of HSV DNA polymerase, strongly inhibits plasmid replication. Also, an HSV-1 mutant with a temperature-sensitive defect in the DNA polymerase gene (tsH) is unable to carry out amplification of test plasmids at the non-permissive temperature. On the other hand, a further mutant (tsS) causes SV40-plasmid amplification independent of the temperature, but this mutant fails to amplify a plasmid with an HSV origin at the non-permissive temperature. Thus, HSV-induced amplification of heterologous DNA is possible in the absence of HSV DNA replication. Since tsS putatively has a defect in the gene coding for an HSV origin-binding protein (UL9), this observation appears plausible. The implications for interaction between herpesviral replication functions and heterologous (possibly cellular) DNA sequences are discussed.
The mechanism responsible for the decreased sensitivity of a clinical herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) isolate, to (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2'-deoxyuridine (BVDU) was examined. Measurements of 50% inhibitory doses of several drugs demonstrated that although HSV-145 was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, adenine arabinoside and acyclovir, its sensitivity to BVDU and 5-(2-chloroethyl)-2'-deoxyuridine was significantly less than that normally observed for HSV-1. Analysis of the thymidylate kinase (TMP-K) activity of HSV-145 thymidine kinase (TK) demonstrated a decreased level of TMP-K activity when compared to HSV-1 TK. The TMP-K activity of HSV-145 resembled that observed for HSV-2 and the TK-deficient strain HSV-1 TK -7. When the nucleotide sequence of the HSV-145 TK gene was compared to that of the HSV-1 strains CI(101) and SC16 a single nucleotide substitution (G changed to A at base position 502) was detected which would result in the substitution of threonine at amino acid position 168 for alanine. The substitution is the same as that for the laboratoryderived BVDU-resistant virus HSV-1 SC16B3. Collectively, these studies highlight the importance of amino acid conservation at position 168 of the HSV-1 TK in conferring efficient TMP-K activity and BVDU sensitivity.
Among more than 90 genes encoded by EBV (Baer et al., 1984) , two viral proteins, LMP1 and p31 encoded by BARF1 gene (called p31), were known to induce a malignant transformation in established rodent cells (Wang et al., 1985; Baichwal and Sugden, 1988; Wei and Ooka, 1989) . N-terminal transmembrane domain including exons 1 to IV of LMP1 protein is involved in the induction of malignant transformation in Rat-1 and Balb/c3T3 cells (Wang et al., 1985; Baichwal and Sugden, 1989) , while its CTAR1 and CTAR2 domains in C-terminal region is rather implicated in B cell immortalization (Mosialos et al., 1995; Huen et al., 1995; Mitchel and Sugden, 1995; Kaye et al., 1993; . LMP1 therefore possess two distinct cell type dependent oncogenic domains in its own protein. The other rodent cell transforming gene BARF1 encodes a 31 kDa protein which was recognized by NPC sera as having a high EA (Early Antigen) titer (Zhang et al., 1988; Wei and Ooka, 1989; De Turenne-Tessier et al., 1997) . The expression of BARF1 is not inhibited in the presence of viral DNA replication inhibitors like phosphonoacetic acid (Zhang et al., 1988) and arabinofuranosylthymine (araT) (Ooka and Calender, 1980; Ooka et al., 1983) , suggesting BARF1 gene as an EBV early gene. The p31 has an oncogenic activity susceptible to induce a malignant transformation in Balb/c3T3 cell line as well as in an EBV negative human Louckes B cell line, inducing a tumor in new-born rats (Wei and Ooka, 1989; Wei et al., 1994) . Its additional oncogenic activity is to immortalize in vitro simian primary epithelial cells . Recent studies showed that BARF1 protein became a target of NK (Natural Killer) cells in ADCC (Antibody Dependent Cell Cytotoxicity) assays (Tanner et al., 1997) . It might also function as a receptor for the human colony-stimulating factor (hCSF-1) (Stockbine et al., 1998) and as an inhibitor of alpha interferon secretion in B cells (Cohen and Lekstrom, 1999) , suggesting that BARF1 biological activity likely concerns both immunomodulation and oncogenicity.
Full-length VP22 is necessary for efficient spread of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) from cell to cell during the course of productive infection. VP22 is a virion phosphoprotein, and its nuclear localization initiates between 5 and 7 h postinfection (hpi) during the course of synchronized infection. The goal of this study was to determine which features of HSV-1 infection function to regulate the translocation of VP22 into the nucleus. We report the following. (i) HSV-1(F)-induced microtubule rearrangement occurred in infected Vero cells by 13 hpi and was characterized by the loss of obvious microtubule organizing centers (MtOCs). Reformed MtOCs were detected at 25 hpi. (ii) VP22 was observed in the cytoplasm of cells prior to microtubule rearrangement and localized in the nucleus following the process. (iii) Stabilization of microtubules by the addition of taxol increased the accumulation of VP22 in the cytoplasm either during infection or in cells expressing VP22 in the absence of other viral proteins. (iv) While VP22 localized to the nuclei of cells treated with the microtubule depolymerizing agent nocodazole, either taxol or nocodazole treatment prevented optimal HSV-1(F) replication in Vero cells. (v) VP22 migration to the nucleus occurred in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that viral DNA and true late protein synthesis were not required for its translocation. Based on these results, we conclude that (iv) microtubule reorganization during HSV-1 infection facilitates the nuclear localization of VP22.
We determined that 85 microM aphidicolin was sufficient to block macroscopic plaque formation by vaccinia virus and to cause a 10(4)-fold reduction in viral yield from a wild-type infection. A chemically mutagenized viral stock was passaged sequentially in the presence of drug, and plaque-purified viral stocks resistant to aphidicolin were isolated and characterized. By use of a marker rescue protocol, the lesion in each mutant was found to map within the same 500-bp fragment within the DNA polymerase gene. All of the mutants were found to contain a single nucleotide change in the same codon. In nine of these mutants, the alanine residue at position 498 was changed to a threonine, whereas a 10th mutant sustained a valine substitution at this position. Congenic viral strains which carried the Aphr lesion in an unmutagenized wild-type background were isolated. The Thr and Val mutations were found to confer equivalent levels of drug resistance. In the presence of drug, viral yields were 25% of control levels, and the levels of viral DNA synthesized were 30 to 50% of those seen in control infections. The two mutations also conferred an equivalent hypersensitivity to the cytosine analog 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (araC); strains carrying the Thr mutation were moderately hypersensitive to the pyrophosphate analog phosphonoacetic acid and the adenosine analog araA, whereas the Val mutation conferred acute hypersensitivity to these inhibitors. The Val mutation also conferred a mutator phenotype, leading to a 20- to 40-fold increase in the frequency of spontaneous mutations within the viral stock.
The Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons reactions of 2-fluoro-2-diethylphosphonoacetic acid with 2-{[(triisopropylsilyl)oxy]methyl}cyclopentanone (2-TOM-cyclopentanone) using methylmagnesium chloride furnished the corresponding tetra-substituted fluoroolefin in a Z-selective manner (E/Z = 9:91). A facile synthesis of rac-N-Cbz-Gly-Ψ[(Z)-CFC]-Pro-OH as a dipeptide isostere was achieved based on the Z-selective Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons reaction.
It is known that the ease of the 1,5 migration of groups in cyclopentadienes is associated with their acceptor power. On the basis of this and in view of the tendency of phosphonoacetic acid triester to react at the C=O group of ..cap alpha..-enols (Wittig-Horner reaction), the authors studied the reactions of phosphonoacetic acid trimethyl ester with cyclones. 2,5-Bis(methoxycarbonyl)-3,4-diphenylcyclopentadienone reacts with the sodium derivative of phosphonoacetic acid trimethyl ester with the formation of adducts in which the carbanion center of the reagent is linked to the C/sup 2/ atom of cyclopentadienone. The IR spectra were determined on a UR-10 spectrometer. The PMR spectra were recorded on Varian T-60 and Tesla BS-467A spectrometer, solvent CHCl/sub 3/ or CDCl/sub 3/, internal standard TMS.
Inoculation of herpes simplex virus on the forehead and/or snout of hairless mice resulted in a significantly lower mortality rate than inoculation of the skin in the lumbosacral area. Latent herpes simplex virus infections were detected in all forehead-inoculated and in 90% of snout-inoculated mice. Phosphonoacetic acid was highly effective in preventing the development of skin lesions, and no latent infections were detected when phosphonoacetic acid ointment was applied 3 h after infection. Neither adenine arabinoside nor adenine arabinoside monophosphate prevented the establishment of latent infections in the trigeminal ganglia, although they protected the mice from the fatal outcome of the infection. The antibody response after adenine arabinoside or adenine arabinoside monophosphate treatment was similar to that observed in untreated animals, and it was six to eight times higher than in mice treated with phosphonoacetic acid. Mice without evidence of latent infection had, in general, lower serum antibody titers than those with latent infections in the ganglia. An analysis of the pathogenesis of herpes simplex virus infection in mice treated with adenine arabinoside showed that virus penetration into the nerve endings was delayed and that the amount of free virus in ganglionic homogenates was 10 to 100 times less than that for untreated mice.
Abstract Resistance of herpes simplex viruses (HSV-1 and HSV-2) to acycloguanosine (ACG) is determined by the two genetic loci of HSV coding for deoxypyrimidine kinase (thymidine kinase) and DNA polymerase activity. Mutants of HSV-1 which induce defective deoxypyrimidine kinase (dPyK − mutants) activity can participate in interallelic complementation, and show variability in their resistance to acycloguanosine (ACG R ). This allows for subdivision of dPyK − mutants based on their resistance to ACG. Mutants dPyK − and dPyK −11 are in one interallelic complementation group and both are 100-fold more resistant to ACG in a plaque reduction assay than is wild type herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). (The 50% inhibitory concentrations (ID 50 ) are 6.0 and 7.0 μM of ACG compared to 0.06 μM .) Mutant MDK (Kit) which cannot complement any other mutant is 500-fold more resistant to ACG (ID 50 = 50 μM ). Other dPyK − mutants fall in between in their sensitivity to ACG. The map position of the mutations in the DNA polymerase locus which result in resistance to ACG ( acg r ) was located by correlating the ACG sensitivity of HSV-1IHSV-2 intertypic combinants with restriction endonuclease analysis of their DNA. The mutations acg r and paa r (phosphonoacetic acid resistance) are contained in the same 1.3 kbp region of DNA (map units 40.2 to 41.0). The level of sensitivity to ACG is type specific, differing in HSV-1 and HSV-2. This type specificity is determined by DNA sequences within map units 39.6 to 41.0. Thus the DNA sequences for type-specific sensitivity and resistance to ACG are shown to be distinct and clustered in the same region as the HSV DNA polymerase locus.
Four different mouse hybrid cell lines producing IgG2b monoclonal antibodies against Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) membrane antigens (MA) were analyzed. The antigens defined by these antibodies, MA-2, MA-4, MA-5, and MA-7, were expressed only on EBV-producing cells. The antigens were induced on P3HR-1 cells by treatment with tumor-promoting agent (TPA) plus n-butyrate, and this induction was inhibited by treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or acyclovir. Most MA monoclonal antibodies neutralized the infectivity of EBV in vitro in the presence of complement. The monoclonal antibody MA-4 precipitated two polypeptides with mol wt of 340K and 240K, while other monoclonal antibodies MA-2, MA-5, and MA-7, did only 340K peptide. The frequency of positive cells in MA-induced cells varied for each monoclonal antibody tested. It was also found that MA-4 (anti-340K and 240K) antibody reacted on both chemically induced cells and EBV-superinfected cells, but others did only on chemically induced cells. It was suggested that MA had a different pattern of expression between chemically induced cells and EBV-superinfected cells.
A cell culture system has been utilized to measure the effects of drugs on DNA synthesis in uninfected and HSV-(herpes simplex virus)-infected KB cells. DNA from HSV-infected cells was separated into viral and cellular components by isopycnic centrifugation in CsCl gradients. The amount of [3H]thymidine incorporated into acid-insoluble material was measured in the absence and presence of drugs. Dose-response relationships were established by linearly regressing the probit value of the percent inhibition DNA synthesis against the logarithm of drug concentration. Fifty percent inhibitory (I50) concentrations were interpolated from the corresponding regression lines for inhibition of the following: (i) DNA synthesis is uninfected KB cells, (ii) total DNA synthesis in HSV-infected KB cells (iii) cellular DNA synthesis in HSV-infected cells, and (iv) viral DNA synthesis in HSV-infected cells. We have derived an index (SI, selective index) that quantifies the preferential inhibition of viral or uninfected cellular DNA synthesis. This index can be expressed as SI = log10 I50 concentration for DNA synthesis in uninfected cells divided by I50 concentration for viral DNA synthesis in HSV-infected cells. The SI is positive if viral DNA synthesis is inhibited preferentially and negative if uninfected cellular DNA synthesis is more strongly inhibited. A positive SI value of 0.5 was obtained for the clinically useful antiviral drug arabinosyladenine (ara-A) and a value of 0.4 for its metabolite, arabinosylhypoxanthine (ara-H). Although the adenosine deaminase inhibitor coformycin greatly increased the potency of ara-A, the inhibitor did not increase the selectivity of the drug (SI = 0.3). Stallimycin (distimycin A) (SI = 0.3) and phosphonoacetic acid (SI = 0.3) were similarly effective in preferentially inhibiting the synthesis of HSV DNA. In contrast, arabinosylcytosine (ara-C) and ribavirin inhibited DNA synthesis in uninfected cells to a greater degree than viral DNA synthesis (SI = -0.5 and -1.9, respectively). An analysis of the advantages and limitations of this experimental procedure is made and the suggestion is offered that the in vitro determination of a drug's selective index may be a valid predictor of clinical usefulness.
We determined that 85 ,iM aphidicolin was sufficient to block macroscopic plaque formation by vaccinia virus and to cause a 104-fold reduction in viral yield from a wild-type infection. A chemically mutagenized viral stock was passaged sequentially in the presence of drug, and plaque-purified viral stocks resistant to aphidicolin were isolated and characterized. By use of a marker rescue protocol, the lesion in each mutant was found to map within the same 500-bp fragment within the DNA polymerase gene. All of the mutants were found to contain a single nucleotide change in the same codon. In nine of these mutants, the alanine residue at position 498 was changed to a threonine, whereas a 10th mutant sustained a valine substitution at this position. Congenic viral strains which carried the Aphr lesion in an unmutagenized wild-type background were isolated. The Thr and Val mutations were found to confer equivalent levels of drug resistance. In the presence of drug, viral yields were 25% of control levels, and the levels of viral DNA synthesized were 30 to 50% of those seen in control infections. The two mutations also conferred an equivalent hypersensitivity to the cytosine analog 1-0-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine (araC); strains carrying the Thr mutation were moderately hypersensitive to the pyrophosphate analog phosphonoacetic acid and the adenosine analog araA, whereas the Val mutation conferred acute hypersensitivity to these inhibitors. The Val mutation also conferred a mutator phenotype, leading to a 20-to 40-fold increase in the frequency of spontaneous mutations within the viral stock.
The 1,006-amino-acid DNA polymerase contains polymerase and proofreading exonuclease activities and retains the conserved sequences shared among numerous viral (phi-29, T4, adenovirus, vaccinia virus, herpes simplex viruses types 1 and 2 [HSV-1 and -2], Epstein-Barr virus, and cytomegalovirus) and eucaryotic (human a and yeast pol I) polymerases (3, 4, 12, 24, 27, 43, 44) . These homologies are thought to mark functional domains involved in template or substrate binding and/or catalytic activity. To date, two temperaturesensitive (codons 392 and 611), one phosphonoacetic acidresistant (PAA), and one aphidicolin-resistant (Aphr) lesion have been localized to specific codons of the viral polymerase (10, 12, 38, 39) . The repeated recovery of the same PAAr lesion (codon 372, G -* D) in several independent selections suggests that this lesion may identify the site of the enzyme's interaction with PAA, an inhibitor of pyrophosphate exchange. Aphidicolin, a fungal tetracyclic diterpenoid, is a specific inhibitor of members of the DNA polymerase a family. Its inhibitory action stems from its presumed interaction with nucleotide-binding domains; biochemical studies * Corresponding author.
OF THE DISSERTATION Murine Cytomegalovirus Encodes Proteins that Regulate Viral Late Transcription by Travis James Chapa Doctor of Philosophy in Biology and Biomedical Sciences Molecular Microbiology and Microbial Pathogenesis Washington University in St. Louis, 2014 Professor Anthony French, Chair Professor Dong Yu, Co-Chair Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a Beta-herpesvirus that causes severe disease in immunocompromised individuals (including AIDS patients), and is the leading viral cause of congenital birth defects. Murine Cytomegalovirus (MCMV) is the primary surrogate model for HCMV, and resembles the human virus with respect to virion structure, genome organization, gene expression, tissue tropism, and clinical manifestations. In my graduate studies, I discovered the function of two novel MCMV proteins during in vitro infection. I demonstrated that ORF M79 encoded protein pM79, and ORF M92 encoded protein pM92. Both pM79 and pM92 have homologs in HCMV, and I showed that they regulate late viral gene transcription. During infection, a mutant virus for either M79 or M92 accumulated representative viral immediate early gene products, early gene products, and viral DNA sufficiently but had severe reduction in the accumulation of late gene products, thus unable to produce infectious progeny. Analysis of the viral transcriptome via tiled array and quantitative PCR analysis revealed that many late transcripts sensitive to a viral DNA synthesis inhibitor (phosphonoacetic acid) were markedly reduced by pM79 or pM92 mutation. Co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analysis revealed the interactions between pM92 and pM79, and suggests that they are part of a larger virus transcription complex. A colleague demonstrated that this function was conserved in the HCMV homolog pUL79, and I showed that pM92 expression in trans could complement the growth defect of pUL92 deficient HCMV. My work was the first evidence of this regulatory complex in MCMV. This complex represents a potential new
Abstract Conventional ion exchange resins are widely utilized to remove metals from aqueous solutions, but their limited selectivity precludes dilute ion extraction. This research investigated the adsorption performance of ligand-functionalized resins towards rare earth elements (REE). Functionalized resin particles were synthesized by grafting different ligands (diethylenetriaminepentaacetic dianhydride (DTPADA), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), or N,N-bis(phosphonomethyl)glycine (BPG)) onto pre-aminated polymeric adsorbents (diameter ∼ 0.6 mm). Lanthanide uptake trends were evaluated for the functionalized resins using batch adsorption experiments with a mixture of three REEs (Nd, Gd, and Ho at 0.1–1000 mg/L each). Resin physical-chemical properties were determined by measuring their surface area, ligand concentrations, and acidity constants. The aminated supports contained 4.0 mmol/g primary amines, and ligand densities for the functionalized resins were 0.33 mmol/g (PAA), 0.22 mmol/g (BPG), and 0.42 mmol/g (DTPADA). Kinetic studies revealed that the functionalized resins followed pseudo-second order binding kinetics with rates limited by intraparticle diffusion. Capacity estimates for total REE adsorption based on Langmuir qMax were 0.12 mg/g (amine; ≈ 0.77 µmol/g), 5.0 mg/g (PAA; ≈ 32.16 µmol/g), 3.0 mg/g (BPG; ≈ 19.30 µmol/g), and 2.9 mg/g (DTPADA; ≈ 18.65 µmol/g). Attaching ligands to the aminated resins greatly improved their REE binding strength and adsorption efficiency.
A DNA- temperature-sensitive mutant of herpes simplex virus type 1 exhibiting thermolabile DNA polymerase activity, tsD9, was shown to be resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) when plated at the permissive temperature. ts+ revertants of tsD9 were PAA sensitive and exhibited DNA polymerase activity intermediate between that of the wild-type virus and tsD9, indicating that both temperature sensitivity and sensitivity to PAA are controlled by the same gene. Since the position of tsD9 on the existing herpes simplex virus type 1 linkage map is known, the locus for PAA resistance--and therefore for the structural gene for viral DNA polymerase--has been identified.
The temporal expression of the UL97 gene product during human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection of human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF) and subcellular localization of this protein were analyzed by using a polyclonalantiserumraisedagainstatruncatedUL97proteinof47kDa.TheUL97proteinwasdetectable16h after infection by Western blot (immunoblot) analysis. Since only reduced UL97 expression occurred in the presence of two inhibitors of DNA replication, phosphonoacetic acid and ganciclovir, we conclude that UL97 isanearly-lategene,requiringDNAreplicationformaximumexpression.Byindirectimmunofluorescence,the protein could be visualized in the nuclei of virus-infected HFF 22 h after infection. Nuclear localization of the UL97 protein was also detected in thymidine kinase-deficient 143B cells infected with a recombinant vaccinia viruscontainingtheentireUL97openreadingframe(ORF),aswellasinHFFtransientlyexpressingtheentire UL97 ORF under the control of the HCMV major immediate-early promoter. However, transiently expressed 5*-terminal deletion mutants of the UL97 ORF in addition showed a cytoplasmic localization of the UL97 protein, confirming the presence of a nuclear localization site in the N-terminal region of the protein. Our high-pressureliquidchromatographyanalysesconfirmedtheganciclovirphosphorylationbytheUL97protein, but no specific phosphorylation of natural nucleosides was observed, indicating that the UL97 protein is not a nucleoside kinase. During plaque purification of recombinant UL97-deficient HCMV, this virus was growth defective; hence, we presume that UL97 may be essential for the viral life cycle.
The main properties of the duck hepatitis B virus (DHBV) DNA polymerase have been studied and compared with those of the human hepatitis B virus (HBV) and of the woodchuck hepatitis virus (WHV) DNA polymerases. All 3 enzymes are active under high salt conditions in the presence of high magnesium concentration. DHBV DNA polymerase was found less sensitive to ethanol and to operate at higher optimal pH than the HBV and WHV DNA polymerases. Like the other two viral endogenous DNA polymerases, the DHBV enzyme was strongly inhibited by phosphonoformic acid but not by aphidicolin, sulfhydryl group blockers or phosphonoacetic acid. Inhibition of DHBV DNA polymerase by the triphosphate derivatives of several nucleoside analogs appeared similar to that reported for HBV or WHV endogenous polymerase. FIACTP was the most, and ACVTP the least effective inhibitor; BVdUTP was of intermediary potency; araCTP and araTTP had a greater inhibitory effect on DHBV DNA polymerase than HBV or WHV DNA polymerase. The similarities in the properties of DHBV and HBV DNA polymerase justify the use of the duck hepatitis B polymerase model for screening and evaluation of potentially active drugs against HBV infection.
Atransmissible agent, theIMvirus, antigenically related totheJapanese subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy virus, hasbeenisolated fromseveral humancerebrospinal fluids obtained fromAmerican patients with multiple sclerosis andother chronic diseases ofthecentral nervoussystem. Theisolates were propagated in humandiploid fibroblast (MRC5)cells, andvirus wasreleased into theculture mediumintheabsence ofovert cytolysis. Infection ofMRC5cells resulted ina subtle alteration inthenormal growth pattern ofthecells. In unstained cultures, thecell changes were somildthat itwas necessarytocarryoutallvirus assaysundercode toeliminate bias. Cells inlate passageswere moresusceptible thanvigorously growing cells inearly passages. Analysis ofthekinetics ofreplication revealed that newlysynthesized progenyvirus was first detected about12 hpostinfection, thatmaximal virus release occurred by48hpostinfection, andthatvirus production was persistent throughout an 8-day period. Several inhibitors ofDNA synthesis were effective inblocking viral replication, including cytosine arabinoside, iododeoxyuridine, andphosphonoacetic acid.A substantial decrease ininfectivity wasobserved upon treatment ofIMvirus withether, suggesting that alipid-containing structure isessential forinfectivity. Ultrafiltration studies approximated thesize (diameter) ofIMvirus tobe between 100and200nm. Recently, wereported theisolation ofavirus fromthe cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ofthree Texanpatients withmultiple sclerosis (MS)andonepatient withamyotrophic lateral sclerosis (8). Since then, wehaverecovered anumberof additional American isolates, chiefly frompatients withMS butalsofrompatients withother chronic central nervous systemdiseases. Theisolates proved tobeantigenically related toa virus recovered inJapanfromtheCSFof patients withsubacute myelo-optico-neuropathy
Chemical agents reported to inhibit the growth of various ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid viruses were tested against foot-and-mouth disease virus in cell culture. These included Zn 2+ , aurintricarboxylic acid, polyribocytidylic acid, polyriboinosinic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and the viral contact inactivator N -methyl isatin β-thiosemicarbazone alone and with CuSO 4 . The most effective agent, Zn 2+ , inhibited foot-and-mouth disease virus production in primary calf kidney cells by 1 log unit at 0.05 mM Zn 2+ and completely at 0.50 mM. Zinc was inhibitory even when added late in infection and was nontoxic to uninfected cells as measured by protein and nucleic acid syntheses. Polyacrylamide gel patterns of [ 35 S]methionine-labeled, virus-specific proteins showed increasing amounts of higher-molecular-weight material, in accord with reports that Zn 2+ inhibits post-translational cleavages of other picornavirus precursor polypeptides.
Five herpes simplex virus mutants containing temperature-sensitive mutations in the gene for the major DNA-binding protein were assayed for their sensitivities to the DNA polymerase inhibitors aphidicolin and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Four of the mutants (tsA1, tsA15, tsA24, and tsA42) exhibited altered sensitivity to one or both of the inhibitors relative to the wild-type parent. In tsA1, a mutation or mutations conferring aphidicolin and PAA hypersensitivity were mapped by corescue with the temperature-sensitivity marker of tsA1 to a region of the DNA-binding protein locus, between map coordinates 0.385 and 0.398. The mutation conferring PAA hypersensitivity in tsA24 similarly corescued with the tsA24 temperature-sensitivity marker, mapping to the DNA-binding protein locus between coordinates 0.398 and 0.413. Thus, mutations outside the DNA polymerase locus and within the DNA-binding protein locus can confer altered sensitivity to certain DNA polymerase inhibitors. Assays of the aphidicolin and PAA sensitivities of ts+ recombinants derived by marker rescue of the DNA-binding protein mutants revealed the presence of additional mutations, separable from the ts mutations, in each of three mutants examined. One such mutation, which contributed to the aphidicolin-hypersensitivity phenotype of tsA1, mapped between coordinates 0.422 and 0.448, and resides, most probably, within the DNA polymerase locus. These additional mutations possibly confer compensating modifications to the DNA polymerase such that functional interaction with altered DNA-binding protein is restored. These findings provide strong evidence that the major DNA-binding protein and the DNA polymerase of herpes simplex virus interact in infected cells.
R,S-Hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (H 3 HPA) is an inexpensive multidentate organic ligand widely used for the preparation of organo-inorganic hybrid materials. There are reports of several crystal structures and the variability of the resulting frameworks is strikingly high, in contrast with the simplicity of the ligand. In an attempt to investigate and rationalize some salient structural features of the crystal structures, we have carried out a systematic high-throughput study of the reaction of H 3 HPA with Ca 2+ in aqueous solutions (pH values ranging 1.0―7.5) at room temperature and hydrothermally at 180 °C. The tested synthetic conditions yielded five crystalline single-phase Ca―H 3 HPA hybrids: Ca 3 (O 3 PCHOHCOO) 2 ·14H 2 O (1), Ca(HO 3 PCHOHCOO)·3H 2 O (2), Ca 5 (O 3 PCHOHCOO) 2 (HO 3 PCHOHCOO) 2 ·6H 2 O (3), CaLi(O 3 PCHOHCOO) (4), and Ca 2 Na(O 3 PCHOHCOO)(HO 3 PCHOHCOO) · 1.5H 2 O (5). Four new crystal structures, 2―5, are reported (three from powder diffraction data and one from single-crystal data), which allowed us to unravel some key common structural features. The Ca―H 3 HPA hybrids without an extra alkaline cation, 1―3, contain a common structural motif, which has been identified as a linear Ca―H 3 HPA―Ca―H 3 HPA―Ca trimer. This inorganic motif has a central Ca 2+ in a distorted octahedral environment, whereas the two side Ca 2+ cations are in an eight-coordinated oxygen-rich environment The H 3 HPA ligands are chelatingthe central Ca 2+ through two pairs of carboxylate and phosphonate oxygen atoms forming six-membered rings, Ca―O―C―C―P―O―Ca. This coordination mode allows the peripheral Ca(II) ions to bind the ligand through the ―OH group and the other carboxylate oxygen, forming a five-membered ring, Ca―O―C―C―O―Ca. The presence of alkaline cations, Li + and Na + disrupt this common structural feature leading to highly dense frameworks. Finally, similarities (and differences) between Ca―H 3 HPA and Cd―H 3 HPA hybrids are also discussed.
Corrosion inhibition by new triazole derivative, phosphonic acid derivative and Zn2+ on mild steel in aqueous media has been investigated by weight loss and potentiodynamic polarization methods. The experimental results obtained reveal that among the three inhibitors triazole derivative is the best effective inhibitor and the inhibition efficiency is found to be in the following order: 1-(2-thienylcarbonyl)benzotriazole (TCBT) > Zn2+ > 2- phosphonoacetic acid ( 2-PAA). The variation in inhibitive efficiency mainly depends on the type and nature of the substituents present in the inhibitor molecule.
Strains of varicella-zoster virus resistant to 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl-E-5-(2-bromovinyl)uracil (BV-araU) were isolated from varicella-zoster virus-infected Vero cells which were pulse-treated with 5-iododeoxyuridine or 5-bromodeoxyuridine or both and then treated with BV-araU. These BV-araU-resistant strains (BV-araUr) could not be isolated from varicella-zoster virus-infected cells treated with BV-araU alone and had reduced viral thymidine kinase activity. Two of five BV-araUr strains were also resistant to 5-iododeoxyuridine and 5-bromodeoxyuridine, whereas other BV-araUr strains were relatively susceptible to these drugs. All clones from the BV-araUr strain were susceptible to 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine and phosphonoacetic acid, but 7 of 10 clones from the BV-araUr strain were resistant to 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine. The possible mechanisms of induction of BV-araU resistance are discussed.
Our work has revealed that at least some of the starvation-induced nutrient transporters, including Gap1 , the Pho84 phosphate (Giots et al., 2003) and the Mep2 ammonium (Van Nuland et al., 2006) transporters, also function as receptors for rapid activation of the protein kinase A (PKA) pathway upon addition of their substrate. One of the best-characterized responses to Accepted 20 May, 2014 . *For correspondence. E-mail johan .thevelein@mmbio.vib-kuleuven.be; Tel. (+32) 16 321507 secr.: (+32) 16 321500; Fax (+32) 16 321979. † These authors made an equal contribution to this work. nutrient activation of PKA is the rapid increase in trehalase activity, which is correlated with its phosphorylation on PKA consensus sites (Hirimburegama et al., 1992; Schepers et al., 2012) . We proposed the name transceptors for proteins combining transporter and receptor functions (Holsbeeks et al., 2004) . Previous screening of substrate analogues has identified molecules that are not transported by the transceptor but can trigger transceptordependent signalling: e.g. L-Leu-Gly for Gap1 (Van Zeebroeck et al., 2009 ) and glycerol-3-phosphate for Pho84 (Popova et al., 2010) . In addition, this previous work identified analogues acting as competitive inhibitors of transport but unable to trigger signalling: L-Asp-γ-L-Phe for Gap1 (Van Zeebroeck et al., 2009) and phosphonoacetic acid for Pho84 (Popova et al., 2010) . This indicated that binding of a molecule into the substrate binding site is not enough to trigger signalling and that a signalling agonist must be able to induce a specific conformational change in the transceptor.
ABSTRACTChromium is present in wastewaters resulted from a lot of industrial processes such as electroplating, dye, cement, leather tanning, and paint. Its presence at values higher than maximum admitted value of 0.05 mg/L can affect the human health and the environment. Therefore, it is essential to remove chromium from wastewaters before discharge. In this study, the adsorption potential of three types of Co (II)-based phosphonate metal organic frameworks, obtained by the reaction of CoSO4.7H2O with phosphonoacetic acid (CP), N,N-bis(phosphonomethyl)glycine (Gly), or vinyl phosphonic acid (VP) in hydrothermal conditions, has been investigated. The study involves batch types experiments investigating the effects of the solution pH, solid:liquid ratio, initial concentration of Cr(VI), and contact time upon the adsorption efficiency of the studied materials. Langmuir, Freundlich, Temkin, and Dubinin–Radushkevich were applied to adsorption equilibrium data to find the best among these models. The kinetics o...
Equine cytomegalovirus (ECMV) contains a linear, double-stranded DNA genome composed of a 146-kbp unique region flanked by a pair of 18-kbp direct repeat (DR) sequences at the termini. Cycloheximide, actinomycin D, and phosphonoacetic acid were applied to infected cell cultures to divide viral transcription into immediate-early (IE), early, and late phases. Eight IE transcripts were identified and mapped to two regions (I and II) of the viral genome. Two of these IE RNAs (13.0 and 5.5 kb in size) were transcribed from region I, which is located within the DR regions; these IE genes are diploid. The other IE transcripts (17.0, 9.0, 7.2, 6.8, 4.5, and 4.2 kb) originated from region II. IE region II is adjacent to region I and spans both unique and DR sequences at the left terminus of the genome. Region II IE transcripts are spliced and transcribed in the opposite direction from region I IE transcripts. IE transcripts from region I were present throughout the replication cycle, whereas those from region II were more abundant during the IE stage than at the early and late stages of infection. These studies demonstrate that ECMV differs from other herpesviruses in the organization and unusually large transcription units of its IE genes.
[reaction: see text] By combining a Ugi four-component reaction of isocyanides, phosphonoacetic acids, primary amines, and glyoxals or alternatively 3-keto aldehydes with a subsequent Wittig ring-closing reaction (using the Horner/Wadsworth/Emmons variant (HWE)), highly substituted 5-oxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrole-2-carboxylic acid amides and 6-oxo-1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-pyridine-2-carboxylic acid amides can be assembled, respectively. The corresponding tandem of a Passerini reaction on 3-keto aldehydes and subsequent Wittig ring closure does not afford the expected six-membered 6-oxo-3,6-dihydro-2H-pyran-2-carboxylic acid amides but instead leads to the formation of 4-oxo-pent-2-enoic acid amides via an elimination route.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) was detected by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in 47 (4.7%) out of 1.000 saliva samples from the outpatients of an oral and maxillofacial surgery department compared with 27 (2.7%) by conventional virus isolation. There were 20 PCR-positive, culture-negative cases but no culture-positive. PCR-negative cases. Patients younger than 10 years or older than 60 years secreted HSV more frequently than the others. Those with inflammatory diseases showed higher positivity for HSV than those with malignancy, trauma or other complaints. All 27 virus isolates were typed as HSV type I and none were resistant to acyclovir, arabinoluranosyl-adenine, iododeoxyuridine or phosphonoacetic acid.
Phosphonoacetic acid disodium salt (PAA) inhibited the transformation of human cord blood lymphocytes by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) at concentrations of 50-100 microgram/ml. At these concentrations, PAA had no effect on the multiplication of EBV transformed human lymphoblastoid cells or on the survival of human cord blood lymphocytes. The transformation of human cord blood lymphocytes by the B95-8 strain of EBV was measured by 3H-thymidine uptake, 5 days or more after infection. The degree of inhibition of transformation was correlated with the relation between the input of EBV and the concentration of PAA in the experiment. PAA inhibited the transformation even when added 24 h after EBV infection, but had no effect when added 48 h after EBV infection. The inhibitory effect of PAA could be overcome by its removal and normal 3H-thymidine uptake was restored even after 6 days of inhibition. The specificity of the inhibitory effect on EBV induced transformation of human cord blood lymphocytes is discussed.
ABSTRACT The Epstein-Barr Virus plasmid, the molecular weight of which is approximately 100 × 10 6 daltons, persists in non-virus-producing cells in a stable regulated state. In the Burkitt-Lymphoma- cell line, Raji, there are 50-60 copies of EBV genomes per cell. The EBV DNA is situated in the nucleus and it is chromo-somally associated, but not covalently integrated into host-cell DNA. At least two-thirds of the viral DNA can be recovered in a supercoiled form with contour lengths approximating 100 × 10 6 daltons. Such molecular forms exist in Burkitt's lymphoma tissue and nasopharyngeal carcinomas in vivo. Supercoiled forms of EBV DNA have also been recovered from the EBV-producing Burkitt's lymphoma cell line, P3HR-1, by suppression of virus production with the antiviral drug, acycloguanosine, and from the EBV-producing marmoset lymphocyte line, B-95-8, with the use of phosphonoacetic acid. The contour length of P3HR-1 supercoiled genomes appears to be less than the length of Raji EBV genomes. Restriction-endonuclease digestion analyses of these forms of the EBV genome are now becoming available. This form of EBV DNA, which has been called the EBV plasmid or episome, appears to be replicated by host DNA polymerases rather than by virus-induced polymerases, can be induced to a limited extent with IUDR, but cannot be cured by any known treatment. The function of the stable EBV plasmid, whether it is expressed, particularly in relation to lymphocyte proliferation and transformation, and its relation to possible integrated viral DNA sequences are probably central issues in the cellular biology and pathobiology of EBV-associated diseases.
NDP kinase catalyzes the last step in the phosphorylation of nucleotides. It is also involved in the activation by cellular kinases of nucleoside analogs used in antiviral therapies. Adenosine phosphonoacetic acid, a close analog of ADP already proposed as an inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase, was found to be a poor substrate for human NDP kinase, as well as a weak inhibitor with an equilibrium dissociation constant of 0.6 mM to be compared to 0.025 mM for ADP. The X-ray structure of a complex of adenosine phosphonoacetic acid and the NDP kinase from Dictyostelium was determined to 2.0 A resolution showing that the analog adopts a binding mode similar to ADP, but that no magnesium ion is present at the active site. As ACP may also interfere with other cellular kinases, its potential as a drug targeting NDP kinase or ribonucleotide reductase is likely to be limited due to strong side effects. The design of new molecules with a narrower specificity and a stronger affinity will benefit from the detailed knowledge of the complex ACP-NDP kinase.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was found to inhibit in vitro varicella-zoster virus (VZV) replication. At 100 µg/ml, PAA blocked the development and spread of VZV cytopathology in both growing and contact
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is an alphaherpesvirus, and its gene organization and regulation are similar to the well-characterized human simplex virus (HSV). Sequence analysis of the complete coding region of PRV UL54 gene revealed that the UL54 gene consisted of 1092 nucleotides encoding a protein of 363 amino acids and the gene showed homology to HSV immediate-early protein ICP27. Detection of the UL54 transcript in infected cells by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated that the UL54 gene belonged to the early kinetic class based on sensitivity to cycloheximide and insensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). To study the structure and function of UL54 protein, this gene was subcloned on Escherichia coli expression vector pET28b for overexpression, and the expressed product was applied to generate specific antibody against UL54 protein. The specificity of the mouse immuneserum was confirmed by its ability to react with a 40kDa viral protein present in the PRV infected cells in Western immunblotting assay, detected as early as 4h after infection. In addition, immunoperoxidasing staining of PRV infected cells undertaken with this antibody demonstrated mainly nuclear staining pattern. Furthermore, the RNA binding potential of UL54 protein was demonstrated by its binding activity to poly(G) RNA homopolymer in Northwestern blotting assay.
Malignant rabbit fibroma virus (MV) directly suppresses generation of antibody responses and mitogen induced T and B lymphocyte proliferation. We investigated whether this phenomenon required expression of the complete viral genome. Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits poxvirus specific DNA polymerases. Adding PAA to cultures reduces both MV replication and mitogen-driven rabbit lymphocyte proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion. A dose of PAA adequate to inhibit MV replication by about 97%, but insufficient to reduce lymphocyte proliferation appreciably, does not affect the ability of MV to suppress lymphocyte proliferation or initiation of antibody production. Spleen cells from MV tumour-bearing rabbits contain very little virus, but inhibit the proliferative and antibody forming responses of normal spleen cells. This activity is shown here to reflect the production by T lymphocytes of a soluble mediator of greater than 25 kD molecular weight. Adding PAA to these mixed spleen cell cultures does not alter the ability of MV to induce T suppressor activity in host lymphocytes. Thus, these immunosuppressive capabilities of MV appear to reflect early MV gene functions.
Suitable dilutions of herpes simplex virus (HSV) preparations inoculated into microcultures of confluent monolayers of human foreskin or Vero cells, in individual wells of plastic "microplates", induced viral cytopathic effects that resulted from the infection of the cultures by single virus particles. The clonal nature of the viral progeny in isolated wells was supported by visual control over the development of viral foci and by statistical analysis. The method has the advantage of speed and economy, while it also yields a large primary clonal virus stock. HSV clones resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (IUdR) could be readily isolated by the described technique.
Phosphonoacetic acid is a selective antiherpesvirus agent. More than 100 congeners of phosphonoacetic acid were evaluated in vitro and in vivo to understand structure-activity relationships in the hope of designing a superior analog. Results showed that the antiherpesvirus activity had highly specific structural requirements. Neither the carboxylic nor the phosphono groups could be replaced. The distance between these two groups is important. Increase of this distance caused complete loss of activity. However, if this distance was maintained, the addition of groups to the methylene carbon resulted in a reduction, but not loss, of activity. On the other hand, decrease of the carbon chain to formic acid did not deteriorate its antiherpes activity. All analogs tested had lower activity than the parent compound. However, some compounds with decreased activity in vitro appeared to have favorable pharmacological properties in vivo.
The stereoselective Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons reaction of aldehydes with bis-(2,2,2trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetic acid utilizing i-PrMgBr afforded (E)-α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acids as the major products. bis-(2,2,2-Trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetic acid was prepared by enzymatic hydrolysis of the corresponding methyl ester with porcine liver esterase.
The stereoselective Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons reaction of aldehydes with bis-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetic acid utilizing i-PrMgBr afforded (E)-α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acids as the major products. bis-(2,2,2-Trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetic acid was prepared by enzymatic hydrolysis of the corresponding methyl ester with porcine liver esterase.
1 The HWE reaction of aldehydes with methyl bis-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetate (1) is a convenient method for the Z-selective synthesis of α,β-unsaturated esters. 2 It is also known that ethyl 2-fluoro-2-diethylphosphonoacetate (2) is an efficient HWE reagent for bringing about E-selective fluoroolefination. 3 According to the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog (CIP) convention, (Z)-α,β-unsaturated esters from phosphonoacetate 1, and (E)-α-fluoro-α,β-unsaturated esters from phosphonoacetate 2 have the same geometric arrangement about their double bonds. Recently, we have reported the Mg(II)-promoted Z-selective HWE reaction of aldehydes with 2-fluoro-2-diethylphosphonoacetic acid (3) for the stereoselective synthesis of (Z)-α-fluoro-α,β-unsaturated esters. 4 That is to say, the Z-selectivity of the resulting α-fluoro-α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acids was achieved by utilizing phosphonoacetic acid 3 and i-PrMgBr in the HWE reaction of various aldehydes in THF under reflux conditions. In an effort to understand the origin of the stereoselectivities in the HWE reaction, we investigated the HWE reaction of bis-(2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)phosphonoacetic acid (4) with various aldehydes 7a-d utilizing i-PrMgBr. We now report on phosphonoacetic acid 4 with an E-selective HWE reagent for the preparation of α,β-unsaturated esters. 
Processive pyrophosphorolysis of RNA from ternary RNA polymerase-nascent RNA-delta D111 T7 DNA complex has been followed in the absence of nucleoside triphosphates. Series of inorganic pyrophosphate analogs were investigated for their ability to sustain the reaction and to compete with inorganic pyrophosphate for the reaction. Methylenediphosphonic, imidodiphosphonic, phosphonacetic acids, inorganic triphosphate, methylenediphosphonic and phosphate were found to be capable of substituting the inorganic pyrophosphate in RNA degradation reaction with tantamount efficiency. They give rise to nucleoside monophosphates for phosphonoacetic acid, nucleoside triphosphates for inorganic pyrophosphate and inorganic triphosphate, nucleoside triphosphates analogs for methylenediphosphonic, imidodiphosphonic acids and methylenediphosphonic acid phosphate as the low molecular weight product of the reaction. The problem of specific interaction of RNA polymerase with nucleoside triphosphates and inorganic pyrophosphate is discussed in the terms of structural requirements for the compounds to be a potent substrate for RNA polymerase.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection of low serum-arrested confluent whole human embryo (Flow 5000) cells markedly stimulated ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity. Increased ODC activity was apparent by 12 h post-infection. The capacity of HCMV to stimulate ODC was: (1) dependent upon multiplicity of infection; (2) eliminated when the virus was neutralized with specific antiserum; and (3) sensitive to ultraviolet irradiation. Virus-mediated induction, in contrast to high serum induction of ODC, was not subject to inhibition by polyamines added to the growth medium. Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) which blocks HCMV replication by inhibiting the activity of HCMV-specific DNA polymerase and which does not prevent HCMV induced stimulation of cell DNA synthesis, reversibly inhibited HCMV-induced stimulation of ODC activity by 74%. Studies with PAA indicated that HCMV-induced stimulation of ODC activity is independent of cell DNA synthesis and that the mechanism regulating virus-induced stimulation may be related to the HCMV-specific DNA polymerase.
Summary ::: Three groups of monoclonal antibodies which reacted with cells infected by guinea-pig cytomegalovirus (GPCMV) were prepared. The first group of antibodies immunoprecipitated a 50000 mol. wt. (50K) polypeptide of GPCMV-infected cells. This polypeptide was identified as part of the nuclear inclusion by immunofluorescence. This nuclear fluorescence was markedly diminished when the infected cells were incubated in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid. By immunoelectron microscopy the antibodies reacted mainly with filamentous structures (26 to 28 nm in diameter) in nuclear inclusions and occasionally stained nucleocapsids. Neither intracytoplasmic nor extracellular virions reacted with the antibodies. Therefore, the 50K protein with which the monoclonal antibodies reacted was nuclear inclusion-specific and a non-structural protein. The second group of antibodies reacted with a 76K polypeptide of the infected cells which was a matrix protein found in both cytoplasmic inclusions and extracellular dense virions. The third group of antibodies mainly reacted with a virion core protein by immunoelectron microscopy.
A major protein of Mr 68,000 with a previously described protein kinase activity (PK68), which is induced in HCMV-infected cells, is shown to be virus encoded by means of hybrid selection. The gene coding for the corresponding 4-kb mRNA was located within map units 0.510 and 0.525. This location is the same as that of pp65, a structural protein with no attributed function. The early nature of the protein was confirmed with its mRNA first appearing 3 hr after infection under cycloheximide reversal and phosphonoacetic acid blocking conditions. Another mRNA, 97 nucleotides smaller and 5' coterminal with PK68, which codes for a Mr 52,000 protein, was also observed.
ABSTRACT We have previously shown that the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) likely encodes hundreds of viral long noncoding RNAs (vlncRNAs) that are expressed during reactivation. Here we show that the EBV latency origin of replication ( oriP ) is transcribed bi-directionally during reactivation and that both leftward (oriPtLs) and rightward (oriPtRs) transcripts are largely localized in the nucleus. While the oriPtLs are most likely noncoding, at least some of the oriPtRs contain the BCRF1/vIL10 open reading frame. Nonetheless, oriPtR transcripts with long 5′ untranslated regions may partially serve noncoding functions. Both oriPtL and oriPtR transcripts are expressed with late kinetics, and their expression is inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis showed that oriPtLs and oriPtRs exhibited extensive “hyperediting” at their Family of Repeat (FR) regions. RNA secondary structure prediction revealed that the FR region of both oriPtLs and oriPtRs may form large evolutionarily conserved and thermodynamically stable hairpins. The double-stranded RNA-binding protein and RNA-editing enzyme ADAR was found to bind to oriPtLs, likely facilitating editing of the FR hairpin. Further, the multifunctional paraspeckle protein, NONO, was found to bind to oriPt transcripts, suggesting that oriPts interact with the paraspeckle-based innate antiviral immune pathway. Knockdown and ectopic expression of oriPtLs showed that it contributes to global viral lytic gene expression and viral DNA replication. Together, these results show that these new vlncRNAs interact with cellular innate immune pathways and that they help facilitate progression of the viral lytic cascade. IMPORTANCE Recent studies have revealed that the complexity of lytic herpesviral transcriptomes is significantly greater than previously appreciated with hundreds of viral long noncoding RNAs (vlncRNAs) being recently discovered. Work on cellular lncRNAs over the past several years has just begun to give us an initial appreciation for the array of functions they play in complex formation and regulatory processes in the cell. The newly identified herpesvirus lncRNAs are similarly likely to play a variety of different functions, although these functions are likely tailored to specific needs of the viral infection cycles. Here we describe novel transcripts derived from the EBV latency origin of replication. We show that they are hyperedited, that they interact with a relatively newly appreciated antiviral pathway, and that they play a role in facilitating viral lytic gene expression. These investigations are a starting point to unraveling the complex arena of vlncRNA function in herpesvirus lytic replication.
Lymphoblastoid B.95-8 cells were cultured for four months and three weeks in the presence of increasing concentrations (50--200 microgram/ml) of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Several weeks after removal of the PAA, the cultures, in parallel with untreated B.95-8 cells, were tested for the presence of: 1) Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) viral capsid antigen (VCA), and b) transformation of human cord blood lymphocytes. There was no difference in the percentage of cells exhibiting VCA in the B.95-8 PAA treated and untreated cells. However, transformation assays indicated 10 times less transforming virus in culture supernatant harvested from B.95-8 cultures treated with PAA, as compared with the control cultures. Electron microscopic studies indicated the presence of virus particles in B.95-8 control cells and their almost complete absence in the PAA-treated cells.
The hot-water extract of Geum japonicum has been shown to exhibit prophylactic and therapeutic anti-herpes simplex virus (HSV) activity in murine infection models. Eugeniin was purified as an anti-HSV compound from the extract and also was isolated from another herbal extract (Syzygium aromaticum) that had exhibited anti-HSV activity in mice. Thus the anti-HSV action of eugeniin was characterized. The effective concentration (5.0 microg/ml) for 50% plaque reduction of eugeniin for wild HSV type 1 (HSV-1) on Vero cells was 13.9-fold lower than its 50% cytotoxic concentration determined by a yield-reduction assay. Eugeniin also inhibited the growth of acyclovir-phosphonoacetic acid-resistant HSV-1, thymidine kinase-deficient HSV-1 and wild HSV type 2. Eugeniin as well as phosphonoacetic acid inhibited viral DNA and late viral protein syntheses in their infected Vero cells, but not cellular protein synthesis at its inhibitory concentrations. Purified HSV-1 DNA polymerase activity was inhibited by eugeniin noncompetitively with respect to dTTP. Its apparent Ki value for euginiin was 8.2- and 5. 8-fold lower than the Ki values of purified human DNA polymerases alpha and beta, respectively. Thus one of the major target sites of inhibitory action of eugeniin is viral DNA synthesis; the inhibitory action for viral DNA polymerase activity was novel compared with anti-HSV nucleoside analogs.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) which blocks HCMV replication by inhibiting the activity of HCMV-specific DNA polymerase and which does not prevent HCMVinduced stimulation of cell DNA synthesis, reversibly inhibited HCMV-induced stimulation of ODC activity by 74 ~-Studies with PAA indicated that HCMVinduced stimulation of ODC activity is independent of cell DNA synthesis and that the mechanism regulating virus-induced stimulation may be related to the HCMV-specific DNA polymerase.
Three groups of monoclonal antibodies which reacted with cells infected by guineapig cytomegalovirus (GPCMV) were prepared. The first group of antibodies immunoprecipitated a 50 000 mol. wt. (50K) polypeptide of GPCMV-infected cells. This polypeptide was identified as part of the nuclear inclusion by immunofluorescence. This nuclear fluorescence was markedly diminished when the infected cells were incubated in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid. By immunoelectron microscopy the antibodies reacted mainly with filamentous structures (26 to 28 nm in diameter) in nuclear inclusions and occasionally stained nucleocapsids. Neither intracytoplasmic nor extracellular virions reacted with the antibodies. Therefore, the 50K protein with which the monoclonal antibodies reacted was nuclear inclusion-specific and a nonstructural protein. The second group of antibodies reacted with a 76K polypeptide of the infected cells which was a matrix protein found in both cytoplasmic inclusions and extracellular dense virions. The third group of antibodies mainly reacted with a virion core protein by immunoelectron microscopy.
Human cytomegalovirus is shown to induce in phosphonoacetic acid-treated human fibroblasts glycosylation of five polypeptides with approximate molecular weights of 200-250, 150, 135, 130 and 100 kilodaltons (kd). Except for the 130 kd product, these glycopolypeptides (gp) separate with the cytoplasmic fraction, only one (200-250 kd) with the chromatin fraction as well. The gp of 135 and 100 kd were found to be virus-specified as determined by immunoblotting and immunoprecipitation. The gp of 200-250 kd exhibited an immunological relatedness to fibronectin and are therefore considered host-specific products. Both subsets of gp participate in virus-induced surface membrane alterations as documented by living cell immunofluorescence.
Phosphonoacetic acid at concentrations above 200 μg/ml inhibited the replication of frog virus 3 in BHK cells. The inhibition of viral DNA replication observed in these cells was reversible and correlated with the inhibition of the virus-induced DNA polymerase activity in an in vitro assay. The synthesis of frog virus 3-induced late or γ polypeptides was also inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, although the early (α and β) polypeptides were unaffected.
Quantitative nuclear magnetic resonance (qNMR) spectroscopy is employed by an increasing number of analytical and industrial laboratories for the assignment of content and quantitative determination of impurities. Within the last few years, it was demonstrated that 1H qNMR can be performed with high accuracy leading to measurement uncertainties below 1 % relative. It was even demonstrated that the combination of 1H qNMR with metrological weighing can lead to measurement uncertainties below 0.1 % when highly pure substances are used. Although qNMR reference standards are already available as certified reference materials (CRM) providing traceability on the basis of 1H qNMR experiments, there is an increasing demand for purity assays on phosphorylated organic compounds and metabolites requiring CRM for quantification by 31P qNMR. Unfortunately, the number of available primary phosphorus standards is limited to a few inorganic CRM which only can be used for the analysis of water-soluble analytes but fail when organic solvents must be employed. This paper presents the concept of value assignment by 31P qNMR measurements for the development of CRM and describes different approaches to establish traceability to primary Standard Reference Material from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST SRM). Phosphonoacetic acid is analyzed as a water-soluble CRM candidate, whereas triphenyl phosphate is a good candidate for the use as qNMR reference material in organic solvents. These substances contain both nuclei, 1H and 31P, and the concept is to show that it is possible to indirectly quantify a potential phosphorus standard via its protons using 1H qNMR. The same standard with its assigned purity can then be used for the quantification of an analyte via its phosphorus using 31P qNMR. For the validation of the concept, triphenyl phosphate and phosphonoacetic acid have been used as 31P qNMR standards to determine the purity of the analyte tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate, and the resulting purity values perfectly overlap within their expanded measurement uncertainties.
Abstract ::: The effects of topical application of phosphonoacetic acid on the colonization of mouse trigeminal ganglia by herpes simplex virus type 1 were examined. The results showed that the extent of colonization of ganglia by virus is related to the time elapsed between virus inoculation and application of this agent. In most cases, treatment started up to 12 h after inoculation prevented invasion of ganglia by virus. When started up to 24 h after inoculation, treatment reduced and stabilized the amount of virus detectable in trigeminal ganglia during the acute phase of the ganglionic infection. Treatments started 24 h after virus inoculation had little influence on total virus accumulations in trigeminal ganglia. The data also indicate that virus titers in specimens of inoculated and treated skin sites are less affected by topical phosphonoacetic acid treatment than virus titers in ganglia. The experiments may represent a model system for testing effects of other antiviral compounds on colonization of ganglia by virus and may provide some clues regarding the pathogenic mechanism of herpes simplex virus infections.
Abstract The objectives of this study were to develop methods to evaluate the susceptibility of the type baculovirus AcMNPV to various antiviral compounds and to select potential inhibitors for investigating baculovirus DNA replication. In concert with the classical cytopathic effects (CPE) and cytotoxicity inhibition assays, two approaches, which could be amenable for high throughput application for evaluating several classes of known antiviral compounds were developed. (i) An indirect approach based on spectrofluorimetric analysis of EGFP expression in Sf21 cells infected with a recombinant AcMNPV (AcEGFP) and (ii) a direct DNA quantitative assay based on quantitative real time PCR (qPCR). Initial CPE results suggested that of 21 compounds tested, aphidicolin, abacavir, camptothecin, (E)-5-(2-bromovinyl)-2′-deoxyuridine (BVDU), l -mimosine, hydroxyurea and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) were selective inhibitors of AcMNPV replication. Consistent with the CPE results, the EGFP fluorescence and the qPCR of viral DNA accumulation exhibited a dose dependent depression of EGFP expression and DNA accumulation, respectively, in infected cells exposed to them. The inhibitory effects of aphidicolin, abacavir, l -mimosine and hydroxyurea on AcMNPV DNA replication were reversible. Taken together, both spectrofluorimetric and qPCR assays are suitable and rapid quantitative approaches to investigate inhibitors of baculovirus DNA replication in infected cells.
Abstract Adenovirus (Ad) DNA replication complexes (RCs) were purified from nuclear extracts of Ad-infected cells by exclusion chromatography, followed by equilibrium centrifugation in discontinuous sucrose-heavy water gradients. The material, which was characterized as the site for synthesis of Ad DNA by its time course of labeling in vivo , was able to elongate, in vitro , viral DNA molecules, the synthesis of which had been initiated in vivo . Endogenous DNA polymerase activity in the Ad RCs was totally inhibited by dideoxythymidine triphosphate (ddTTP) at a ddTTP:dTTP ratio of about 5:100; this suggests that the functional enzyme involved was DNA polymerase γ. The activity of the RCs was also strongly inhibited by 50 μg/ml phosphonoacetic acid (PPAA), and by Ara CTP:dCTP ratios of about 5:1; this suggests that the functional enzyme involved in the elongation activity was DNA polymerase α. Sensitivity of Ad RC's endogenous activity toward aphidicolin was somewhat lower than that reported for purified DNA polymerase α, but definitely much higher than that reported for DNA polymerase γ. Direct determination of the DNA polymerases present in partially purified Ad RCs was done by sucrose gradient centrifugation followed by identification of the enzymes through the use of specific assays. The major DNA polymerase present in Ad RCs was DNA polymerase α. In addition, small amounts of DNA polymerase γ were detected. No DNA polymerase β appeared to be present. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that Ad5 DNA replication involves both DNA polymerases α and γ.
A herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) mutant TS6 (strain HG52) induces a heat-labile viral DNA polymerase at the nonpermissive temperature and is markedly resistant to 9-[[2-hydroxy-1-(hydroxymethyl)ethoxy]methyl]-guanine [2'-nor-2'-deoxyguanosine; 2'NDG]. This antiviral drug requires HSV thymidine kinase for phosphorylation to an active inhibitor (2'NDG-triphosphate), and thymidine kinase-deficient mutants of HSV exhibit varying degrees of resistance to 2'NDG, with the HSV type 1 (HSV-1) B2006 mutant (Kit) being markedly resistant. The ts6 mutation and the 2'ndgR-1 mutation within the viral DNA polymerase locus have been physically mapped by marker rescue and generation of HSV-1/HSV-2 intertypic recombinants. The physical map limits for the ts6 mutation and 2'ndgR-1 mutation are closely linked within a 2.2-kilobase-pair region of DNA sequences and are physically separate from the paaR-1 and acvR-1 mutations. Resistance to 2'NDG by HSV-2 ts6 can be overcome in the presence of combinations of 2'NDG and phosphonoacetic acid, indicating drug synergism within the viral DNA polymerase locus. These physical mapping studies expand the limits of DNA sequences defining an active center in the viral polymerase to 3.5 kilobase pairs, indicating that regions spanning the entire polymerase polypeptide may contribute to a specialized surface able to interact with nucleotides of different structure.
Synthesis of DNA and poly(adenosine diphosphoribose) [poly(ADPR)] was examined in permeabilized xeroderma pigmentosum lymphoblasts (XP3BE) before and after UV irradiation and in the presence and absence of Micrococcus luteus UV endonuclease. M. luteus UV endonuclease had no effect on the level of DNA or poly(ADPR) synthesis in control, unirradiated cells. UV irradiation caused a decrease in replicative DNA synthesis without any significant change in poly(ADPR) synthesis. In UV-irradiated cells treated with M. luteus UV endonuclease, DNA synthesis was restored to a level slightly greater than in the unirradiated control cells, and poly(ADPR) synthesis increased by 2- to 4-fold. Time--course studies showed that the UV endonuclease dependent poly(ADPR) synthesis preceded the endonuclease-dependent DNA synthesis. Inhibition of endonuclease-dependent poly(ADPR) synthesis with 3-aminobenzamide, 5-methylnicotinamide, or theophylline produced a partial inhibition of the endonuclease-dependent DNA synthesis. Conversely, inhibition of the endonuclease-dependent DNA synthesis with dideoxythymidine triphosphate, phosphonoacetic acid, or aphidicolin had no effect on the endonuclease-dependent poly(ADPR) synthesis. These studies show that stimulation of poly(ADPR) synthesis in UV-irradiated cells occurs subsequent to the DNA strand breaks created by the specific action of the UV endonuclease on UV-irradiated DNA. The effect of the inhibitors of poly(ADPR) synthesis in UV-irradiated cells indicates that the endonuclease-stimulated DNA synthesis is dependent in part on the prior synthesis of poly(ADPR).
The effect of an original drug Kagocel on the reproduction of Herpes simplex virus including its mutant strains resistant to basic antiherpetic medicine Acyclovir was evaluated. Kagocel was shown to have a low cytotoxic effect on Vero cell and inhibited reproduction of Herpes virus type 1 and Herpes virus type 2 in noncytotoxic concentrations. Kagocel was also demonstrated to inhibit the reproduction of Herpes virus type 1, resistant to combination of Acyclovir and phosphonoacetic acid. Detection of direct antiherpetic activity of Kagocel in vitro opens good perspectives to its clinical application, especially in combination with Acyclovir, the medication with other antiherpetic mechanism of action.
Single-base substitutions or frameshift mutations within the viral TK gene cause most cases of acyclovir resistance [3, 4] . Mutations within the HSV DNA pol gene have been described in laboratory-derived HSV mutants [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] and in 2 clinical isolates [10, 11] . Depending on their location, DNA pol mutations confer resistance or hypersensitivity to diverse antivirals, such as acyclovir, foscarnet, phosphonoacetic acid, and aphidicolin.
Phosphonoacetic acid at concentrations above 200 ,g/ml inhibited the replication of frog virus 3 in BHK cells. The inhibition of viral DNA replication observed in these cells was reversible and correlated with the inhibition of the virus-induced DNA polymerase activity in an in vitro assay. The synthesis of frog virus 3-induced late or -y polypeptides was also inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, although the early (a and ,8) polypeptides were unaffected.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) is a potent inhibitor of the replication of a number of herpesviruses in tissue culture (9, 19, 20) . It affects a virus-induced DNA polymerase (9), and the drug significantly reduces the severity of herpesvirus infections in model animal systems (4, 12, 15, 19, 20) . This compound has little effect on other animal DNA viruses, with the exception of vaccinia virus (2, 9).
Abstract Quantitative nuclear magnetic resonance (qNMR) spectroscopy is employed by an increasing number of analytical and industrial laboratories for the assignment of content and quantitative determination of impurities. Within the last few years, it was demonstrated that 1 H qNMR can be performed with high accuracy leading to measurement uncertainties below 1 % relative. It was even demonstrated that the combination of 1 H qNMR with metrological weighing can lead to measurement uncertainties below 0.1 % when highly pure substances are used. Although qNMR reference standards are already available as certified reference materials (CRM) providing traceability on the basis of 1 H qNMR experiments, there is an increasing demand for purity assays on phosphorylated organic compounds and metabolites requiring CRM for quantification by 31 P qNMR. Unfortunately, the number of available primary phosphorus standards is limited to a few inorganic CRM which only can be used for the analysis of water-soluble analytes but fail when organic solvents must be employed. This paper presents the concept of value assignment by 31 P qNMR measurements for the development of CRM and describes different approaches to establish traceability to primary Standard Reference Material from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST SRM). Phosphonoacetic acid is analyzed as a water-soluble CRM candidate, whereas triphenyl phosphate is a good candidate for the use as qNMR reference material in organic solvents. These substances contain both nuclei, 1 H and 31 P, and the concept is to show that it is possible to indirectly quantify a potential phosphorus standard via its protons using 1 H qNMR. The same standard with its assigned purity can then be used for the quantification of an analyte via its phosphorus using 31 P qNMR. For the validation of the concept, triphenyl phosphate and phosphonoacetic acid have been used as 31 P qNMR standards to determine the purity of the analyte tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate, and the resulting purity values perfectly overlap within their expanded measurement uncertainties.
Carbamyl phosphate, an organic molecule containing a single phosphate group, has been used in the therapy of sickle-cell disease. Carbamyl phosphate bound Tc-99m and achieved bone uptake in mice, rabbits, and a human volunteer. By examination of the structural formula, a working hypothesis was developed that predicted that the Tc-99m complexes of the analogous compounds acetyl phosphate, propionyl phosphate, and butyryl phosphate, each carrying single phosphate and carbonyl groups, would also show bone specificity. This was confirmed experimentally. Phosphonoacetic acid is a structural analog of these compounds. The structural analysis also predicted that aminomethylphosphonic acid and phosphoenolpyruvate would not have as avid bone affinity, and this was also confirmed. These compounds represent a new class of bone-seeking agents that have the common properties of a lone phosphate and a carbonyl function. Such agents may permit the synthesis of additional analogs in an effort to obtain optimal affinity in the Tc-99m complexes.
Summary ::: Associations of herpesvirus saimiri-specified proteins with nuclear fractions from cultures of infected cells were probed by nuclease digestion, detergent extractions and immunofluorescence microscopy using monoclonal antibodies to virus polypeptides. Nuclease digestion selectively released delayed-early polypeptides with apparent mol. wt. of 110000 (110K) and 51000 (51K) from nuclei of infected cultures and the majority of each of these polypeptides partitioned with the insoluble fraction after detergent extraction of such nuclei. However, the nuclease-mediated release of both these proteins was specifically reduced when nuclei were isolated from cultures in which virus DNA synthesis had been inhibited with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). In addition, the 110K polypeptide partitioned into the soluble fraction when nuclei from PAA-treated cultures were extracted with detergent. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed characteristic and distinctive subnuclear localizations of the 110K and 5lK polypeptides in control cultures and these patterns of subnuclear accumulations were markedly altered in cultures treated with PAA. We conclude that the DNA-binding properties of the delayed-early 110K and 51K proteins of herpesvirus saimiri previously observed in vitro are likely to reflect their functions as DNA-binding proteins in vivo.
Abstract The DNA polymerase encoded by herpes simplex virus 1 consists of a single polypeptide of Mr 136,000 that has both DNA polymerase and 3'----5' exonuclease activities; it lacks a 5'----3' exonuclease. The herpes polymerase is exceptionally slow in extending a synthetic DNA primer annealed to circular single-stranded DNA (turnover number approximately 0.25 nucleotide). Nevertheless, it is highly processive because of its extremely tight binding to a primer terminus (Kd less than 1 nM). The single-stranded DNA-binding protein from Escherichia coli greatly stimulates the rate (turnover number approximately 4.5 nucleotides) by facilitating the efficient binding to and extension of the DNA primers. Synchronous replication by the polymerase of primed single-stranded DNA circles coated with the single-stranded DNA-binding protein proceeds to the last nucleotide of available 5.4-kilobase template without dissociation, despite the 20-30 min required to replicate the circle. Upon completion of synthesis, the polymerase is slow in cycling to other primed single-stranded DNA circles. ATP (or dATP) is not required to initiate or sustain highly processive synthesis. The 3'----5' exonuclease associated with the herpes DNA polymerase binds a 3' terminus tightly (Km less than 50 nM) and is as sensitive as the polymerase activity to inhibition by phosphonoacetic acid (Ki approximately 4 microM), suggesting close communication between the polymerase and exonuclease sites.
Most point substitutions in the highly-conserved 885-GDTDS motif of the HSV-1 DNA polymerase inactivate polymerase elongation activity. However, in an assay system based on expression by in vitro transcription-translation, the mutant GDTDA (S889A) possessed wild-type elongation activity which was highly resistant to phosphonoacetic acid and acyclovir triphosphate, but retained sensitivity to aphidicolin.
Three strains of microorganisms: Bacillus subtilis, Serratia liquefaciens and Escherichia coli were tested as whole-cell biocatalysts for the kinetic resolution of isomers of two new phosphonoacetic acid derivatives. Used compounds possess two chiral centres – one at the carbon adjacent to both functional groups and the other at the phosphorus. Biocatalytic hydrolysis of 2-butyryloxy-2-(butoxyetoxyphosphinyl)acetic acid and 2-butyryloxy-2-(isobutoxyetoxyphosphinyl)acetic acid with whole cells of Bacillus subtilis produced corresponding hydroxyphosphonates with diastereoselectivity ranging from 50 to 60%.
Acyclovir and vidarabine both exhibit anti-herpetic activity. Because different mechanisms of action of vidarabine and acyclovir have been reported, we analyzed their combined anti-herpetic activity on plaque formation of herpes simplex virus (HSV)-1, HSV-2, and varicella-zoster virus (VZV) by isobolograms. The results indicate that acyclovir and vidarabine have a synergistic effect on wild type HSV-1, HSV-2, and VZV. The susceptibility of thymidine kinase-deficient HSV-1 to vidarabine was not affected by the presence of acyclovir, suggesting that phosphorylation of acyclovir is essential for synergism. The combined anti-HSV activity of acyclovir and vidarabine against phosphonoacetic acid-resistant HSV-1 with DNA polymerase mutation did not show synergism in contrast to that against wild-type herpesviruses. Alteration of the substrate specificity of viral DNA polymerase to acyclovir and vidarabine annihilated the synergism. Thus, the nature of their binding sites on DNA polymerase is important to the synergistic anti-herpesvirus activity of acyclovir and vidarabine.
Herpesvirus genes are temporally expressed during permissive infections, but how their expression is regulated at late times is poorly understood. Previous studies indicate that the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) gene, UL79, is required for late gene expression. However, the mechanism remains to be fully elucidated, and UL79 homologues in other CMVs have not been studied. Here, we characterized the role of the conserved murine CMV (MCMV) gene M79. We showed that M79 encoded a protein (pM79) which was expressed with early-late kinetics and localized to nuclear viral replication compartments. M79 transcription was significantly decreased in the absence of viral DNA synthesis but markedly stimulated by pM79. To investigate its role, we created the recombinant virus SMin79, in which pM79 expression was disrupted. While marker-rescued virus grew efficiently in fibroblasts, SMin79 failed to produce infectious progeny but was rescued by pM79 expression in trans. During SMin79 infection, representative viral immediate-early and early gene products as well as viral DNA accumulated sufficiently. Formation of viral replication compartments also appeared normal. Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis analysis indicated that the overall structure of replicating viral DNA was indistinguishable between wild-type and SMin79 infection. Viral tiled array and quantitative PCR analysis revealed that many late transcripts sensitive to a viral DNA synthesis inhibitor (phosphonoacetic acid) were markedly reduced by pM79 mutation. This study indicates that cytomegaloviruses use a conserved mechanism to promote transcription at late stages of infection and that pM79 is a critical regulator for at least a subset of viral DNA synthesis-dependent transcripts.
We sought to examine the effects of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection on the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) molecules by human fibroblasts and T lymphocytes. By flow cytometry, VZV infection reduced the cell surface expression of MHC I molecules on fibroblasts significantly, yet the expression of transferrin receptor was not affected. Importantly, when human fetal thymus/liver implants in SCID-hu mice were inoculated with VZV, cell surface MHC I expression was downregulated specifically on VZV-infected human CD3+ T lymphocytes, a prominent target that sustains VZV viremia. The stage in the MHC I assembly process that was disrupted by VZV in fibroblasts was examined in pulse-chase and immunoprecipitation experiments in the presence of endoglycosidase H. MHC I complexes continued to be assembled in VZV-infected cells and were not retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. In contrast, immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy showed that VZV infection resulted in an accumulation of MHC I molecules which colocalized to the Golgi compartment. Inhibition of late viral gene expression by treatment of infected fibroblasts with phosphonoacetic acid did not influence the modulation of MHC I expression, nor did transfection of cells with plasmids expressing immediate early viral proteins. However, cells transfected with a plasmid carrying the early gene ORF66 did result in a significant downregulation of MHC I expression, suggesting that this gene encodes a protein with an immunomodulatory function. Thus, VZV downregulates MHC I expression by impairing the transport of MHC I molecules from the Golgi compartment to the cell surface; this effect may enable the virus to evade CD8+ T-cell immune recognition during VZV pathogenesis, including the critical phase of T-lymphocyte-associated viremia.
Thymidine kinase-deficient mouse cell cultures infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 exhibited a maximum of virus DNA synthesis around 8 h post-infection as determined by pulse labelling with 3H-thymidine. Cellular DNA synthesis was progressively inhibited, but still appreciable until 8 h post-infection and not completely abolished at any time during the infectious cycle. Phosphonoacetic acid was found to be a potent and selective inhibitor of virus DNA synthesis only when added to infected cultures before the onset of virus DNA synthesis. During the interval of increasing virus DNA synthesis the activity of cellular alpha polymerase decreased rapidly, whereas the beta polymerase activity increased significantly; a slight increase was observed for the gamma polymerase activity. When infected cells were kept in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid following virus adsorption the effect on cellular DNA polymerases was less pronounced.
Processive pyrophosphorolysis of RNA from ternary RNA polymerase-nascent RNA-delta D111 T7 DNA complex has been followed in the absence of nucleoside triphosphates. Series of inorganic pyrophosphate analogs were investigated for their ability to sustain the reaction and to compete with inorganic pyrophosphate for the reaction. Methylenediphosphonic, imidodiphosphonic, phosphonacetic acids, inorganic triphosphate, methylenediphosphonic and phosphate were found to be capable of substituting the inorganic pyrophosphate in RNA degradation reaction with tantamount efficiency. They give rise to nucleoside monophosphates for phosphonoacetic acid, nucleoside triphosphates for inorganic pyrophosphate and inorganic triphosphate, nucleoside triphosphates analogs for methylenediphosphonic, imidodiphosphonic acids and methylenediphosphonic acid phosphate as the low molecular weight product of the reaction. The problem of specific interaction of RNA polymerase with nucleoside triphosphates and inorganic pyrophosphate is discussed in the terms of structural requirements for the compounds to be a potent substrate for RNA polymerase.
Two questions were not addressed in those studies. The first concerned the role of HSV-1 DNA polymerase. Indeed, even if it was clear that the HP complex and ICP8 could induce AAV replication, the level achieved was less than 1% of that observed in cells infected with wt HSV-1, suggesting that some critical factors involved in DNA replication were missing [9] . A potential role for the HSV-1 DNA polymerase had been previously suggested by studies indicating that addition of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) greatly reduced AAV replication during co-infection with HSV-1 [10] . In addition, the involvement of the HSV-1 DNA polymerase was further suggested by Ward et al. who demonstrated that this viral complex could replicate AAV DNA using in vitro replication assays in the absence of cellular factors [11] . However, despite these observations the role of the polymerase was not re-evaluated in vivo by adding it to the minimal set of HSV-1 helper factors.
Associations of herpesvirus saimiri-specified proteins with nuclear fractions from cultures of infected cells were probed by nuclease digestion, detergent extractions and immunofluorescence microscopy using monoclonal antibodies to virus polypeptides. Nuclease digestion selectively released delayed-early polypeptides with apparent mol. wt. of 110000 (110K) and 51000 (51K) from nuclei of infected cultures and the majority of each of these polypeptides partitioned with the insoluble fraction after detergent extraction of such nuclei. However, the nuclease-mediated release of both these proteins was specifically reduced when nuclei were isolated from cultures in which virus DNA synthesis had been inhibited with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). In addition, the 110K polypeptide partitioned into the soluble fraction when nuclei from PAA-treated cultures were extracted with detergent. Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed characteristic and distinctive subnuclear localizations of the 110K and 51K polypeptides in control cultures and these patterns of subnuclear accumulations were markedly altered in cultures treated with PAA. We conclude that the DNA-binding properties of the delayed-early ll0K and 51K proteins of herpesvirus saimiri previously observed in vitro are likely to reflect their functions as DNA-binding proteins in vivo.
Three strains of microorganisms: Bacillus subtilis, Serratia liquefaciens and Escherichia coli were tested as whole-cell biocatalysts for the kinetic resolution of isomers of two new phosphonoacetic acid derivatives. Used compounds possess two chiral centres -one at the carbon adjacent to both functional groups and the other at the phosphorus. Biocatalytic hydrolysis of 2-butyryloxy-2-(butoxyetoxyphosphinyl)acetic acid and 2-butyryloxy-2-(isobutoxyetoxyphosphinyl)acetic acid with whole cells of Bacillus subtilis produced corresponding hydroxyphosphonates with diastereoselectivity ranging from 50 to 60%.
Gene expression during herpesvirus lytic infection is highly coordinated and sequentially ordered such that viral genes are traditionally divided into three kinetic classes: immediate early (IE), early, and late. IE genes are transcribed following viral DNA translocation to the nucleus and require only incoming virionassociated proteins and cellular factors for their expression. Products of IE genes transactivate early genes and remodel the host cell to be permissive for virus replication. Early gene transcriptions are initiated prior to viral DNA synthesis, but some persist at late times of infection, even after the onset of DNA synthesis. Early gene products are required for both viral DNA synthesis and formation of replication compartments, which are virus-induced subnuclear structures where viral DNA synthesis occurs. Transcription of late viral genes occurs after the onset of viral DNA synthesis and peaks at late times of infection. Many late genes encode structural proteins required for virion assembly, maturation, and release. Largely consistent with this temporal regulation, transcription of many IE and early genes is resistant to viral DNA synthesis inhibitors, such as phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Late transcripts, defined by their abundant accumulation at late times of infection and dependency on viral DNA synthesis, are largely derived from late genes. In addition, some genes have both early and late properties, as their expression initiates prior to DNA synthesis, but the transcripts continue to accumulate to high levels at late times in a DNA synthesis-dependent manner.
Thymidine kinase-deficient mouse cell cultures infected with herpes simplex virus type I exhibited a maximum of virus DNA synthesis around 8 h postinfection as determined by pulse labelling with 3H-thymidine. Cellular DNA synthesis was progressively inhibited, but still appreciable until 8 h post-infection and not completely abolished at any time during the infectious cycle. Phosphonoacetic acid was found to be a potent and selective inhibitor of virus DNA synthesis only when added to infected cultures before the onset of virus DNA synthesis. During the interval of increasing virus DNA synthesis the activity of cellular polymerase decreased rapidly, whereas the fl polymerase activity increased significantly; a slight increase was observed for the 7 polymerase activity. When infected cells were kept in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid following virus adsorption the effect on cellular DNA polymerases was less pronounced.
TheDNApolymerase geneofAfrican swinefever virus (ASFV) was mappedbymarkerrescueexperiments usinga phosphonoacetic acid-resistant mutantand hybridization withan oligonucleotide probedesigned fromthemostconservedmotifoffamily B DNA polymerases. Viral DNA fragments mappingin this region werecloned andsequenced. An openreading framecoding fora 1244aminoacid longpeptide with a molecular mass of142.5kDawas determined from thesequence. A uniquefeatureof ASFV DNA polymerase isthepresenceof13tandemrepeats of thesequenceAla-Gly-Asp-Pro nearthecarboxyl end ofthemolecule. Comparison with30sequencesof alpha-like DNA polymerases ofcellular andviral origin showedthatASFV DNA polymerase has allthe conserved motifs offamily B DNA polymerases. A 3.9 kbtranscript was detected byNorthern hybridization andthetranscription initiation andtermination sites weremappedbySianalysis andprimer extension. Late transcription was initiated ata sitedifferent fromthe early transcription initiation site. A 145kDaprotein, consistent withthesizeofthegene,was identified by an insitu enzyme assayafter gelelectrophoresis of infected cell extracts.
RNA was isolated from two strains of Marek's disease virus (MDV-Z and MDV-B). The virus was grown in duck embryo fibroblasts (DEF) for 96 hr, 72 hr in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and 24 hr in the presence of cycloheximide added at the time of infection. With the use of DNA probes representing about 80% of the MDV genome, an extensive Northern blot analysis of the RNA was carried out. A similar analysis was done with RNA extracted from the MDV-transformed cell line MSB-1. This study revealed 42, 25 and 29 discrete viral RNA transcripts in MDV-Z and MDV-B-infected DEF and in the MSB-1 cell line, respectively, ranging in size from 0.8 to 13 kb. In MDV-Z-infected DEF, there were twelve late RNA species, two early and eight immediate-early viral transcripts. In MDV-B-infected DEF there were eleven late RNA species, two early and seven immediate-early viral transcripts. The RNA species were homologous for all the probes used except theBamHI-G DNA fragment where no RNA transcripts were detected in the MSB-1 cell line. The RNA transcripts were used to produce a preliminary viral RNA map. Comparison of the location and sizes of the viral RNA transcripts in MDV-infected and MDV-transformed cells revealed several differences.
Certain functions normally expressed during the early phase of productive human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection in human embryonic lung (HEL) cells are not expressed in abortively infected rabbit kidney (RK) cells. To determine the stage at which infection is blocked in RK cells, HCMV transcripts synthesized by these abortively infected cultures were compared to those synthesized during early stages of infection in productively infected HEL cells. The rate of accumulation of HCMV-specific RNA was approximately six- to eightfold lower in RK than in HEL cells during the first 24 hr postinfection. Although the rate of RNA accumulation did not decrease thereafter in RK cells, it did increase significantly in HEL cells and was dependent on the replication of virus DNA. Transcripts obtained from HEL cells 24 hr postinfection (either in the absence or presence of phosphonoacetic acid) and from abortively infected RK cells were analyzed by the Southern technique. Most of the "early" transcripts which accumulated in infected permissive cells were also present in the infected nonpermissive cells at 24 hr postinfection. However, some of the early transcripts (complementary to approximately 7% of the genome) were significantly underrepresented in RK cells. Furthermore, transcripts originating from one region of the genome, which were abundantly represented as cytoplasmic RNA both in productively and nonproductively infected cells, and which were polysome-associated in HEL cells, were found associated with polysomes in RK cells in very low amounts only. Northern blot analysis of the total and polysomal RNA from infected HEL cells and RK cells confirmed these findings. These results show that differences between productively infected HEL and nonproductively infected RK cells exist at the level of accumulation of some early transcripts, as well as at the level of association of some of these transcripts with polysomes.
Hydrothermal reactions of Zn{sup II}, Ba{sup II} or Co{sup II} ion with 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (H{sub 3}L) afforded six metal phosphonates, namely, [Zn{sub 5}(O{sub 3}PCH(OH)CO{sub 2}){sub 4}(C{sub 6}H{sub 9}N{sub 2}){sub 2}] (1), [(C{sub 4}H{sub 12}N{sub 2})Zn{sub 5}(O{sub 3}PCH(OH)CO{sub 2}){sub 4}(H{sub 2}O){sub 2}] (2), [(C{sub 3}H{sub 12}N{sub 2}){sub 0.5}Zn{sub 5}(HO{sub 3}PCH(OH)CO{sub 2})(O{sub 3}PCH(OH)CO{sub 2}){sub 3}(H{sub 2}O){sub 2}].0.75H{sub 2}O (3), [BaZn{sub 2}(O{sub 3}P CH(OH)CO{sub 2}){sub 2}] (4), [Ba(HO{sub 3}PCH(OH)CO{sub 2})] (5) and [(NH{sub 4}){sub 2}Co{sub 7}(HO{sub 3}PCH(OH) CO{sub 2}){sub 6}(HPO{sub 4}){sub 2}(H{sub 2}O){sub 6}].4H{sub 2}O (6). In 1, zinc tetrahedra ([ZnO{sub 4}]) and octahedra ([ZnO{sub 5}N], [ZnO{sub 6}]) are bridged by 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetate with penta- and hexadendate modes into a hybrid layer, which is further pillared by the 3-picolylamines to form a 3D structure through Zn-N bonds and hydrogen bondings. Both 2 and 3 are 3D framework encapsulating piperazine and 1,2-propanediamine cations, respectively. In solids 4-6, the cross-linkages of [ZnO{sub 4}], [BaO{sub 10}] and [CoO{sub 6}] polyhedral with 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetate form 3D frameworks. Solids 3 and 4 behave thermally stable up to 250 and 300 {sup o}C under air atmosphere, respectively. It is interesting that the peak emission of solid 3 displays a 10 nm red-shift after simple heat-treatment. -- Graphical abstract: Six new metalmore » phosphonates exhibit layered or 3D frameworks based on 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetate with five new coordination modes. Display Omitted Research highlights: {yields} Metal phosphonates are layered or 3D frameworks. {yields} Metal phosphonates are stable up to 250-300 {sup o}C under air atmosphere. {yields} 2-Hydroxyphosphonoacetate displays five new coordination modes.« less
Within the family of Poxviridae, the entomopoxviruses are the most distant relatives of the more well-known and intensively studied orthopoxviruses (vaccinia and variola). The growth of the entomopoxvirus from Amsacta moorei (AmEPV) has been characterized in cell culture and compared to that of vaccinia virus (VV), the prototypic orthopoxvirus. The overall characteristics of infected cell cultures were generally similar between the two viruses. One striking difference noted was the apparent absence of proteolytic processing of late AmEPV viral proteins, a hallmark of vertebrate poxvirus infections associated with viral morphogenesis. AmEPV, like VV, was found to be sensitive to all the inhibitors of viral infection tested including phosphonoacetic acid, 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine, and isatin-beta-thiosemicarbazone (IBT), a compound associated with the rather specific inhibition of vertebrate poxviruses. While both VV and AmEPV are inhibited by IBT, the inhibition of AmEPV, unlike that of VV, is not accompanied by either a breakdown of ribosomal RNA or a global inhibition of late viral protein synthesis. Instead, in the presence of IBT, AmEPV enveloped, immature virions form devoid of a well-differentiated core, which unlike mature virions fail to insert into occlusion bodies.
In this report, we present the DNA sequence and transcriptional characterization of a gene (IR5) that maps within each of the inverted repeat (IR) segments of the equine herpesvirus type 1 (EHV-1) genome. The IR5 open reading frame (ORF) is located within both IR sequences (nucleotides 9932-10,642 of the IR). DNA sequence analyses of the IR5 gene region revealed an ORF of 236 amino acids (24,793 Da) that showed significant homology to ORF64 of varicella-zoster virus and ORF3 of EHV-4 both of which map within the inverted repeats and to the US10 ORF of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) which maps within the unique short segment. Additional analyses of the nucleotide sequence failed to reveal any overlapping ORFs that would correspond to US11 or US12 of HSV-1. Interestingly, the IR5 ORF of EHV-1 possesses a sequence of 13 amino acids (CAYWCCLGHAFAC) that is a perfect match to the consensus zinc finger motif (C-X2-4-C-X2-15-C/H-X2-4-C/H). Putative cis-acting elements flanking the IR5 ORF include a TATA box (nucleotides 9864-9870), a CAAT box (nucleotides 9709-9714), and a polyadenylation signal (nucleotides 10,645-10,650). Northern blot and S1 nuclease analyses identified a single 0.9-kb mRNA species that first appears at 2 hr postinfection, and whose synthesis is reduced in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of EHV-1 DNA synthesis. Thus, the IR5 gene of EHV-1 exhibits characteristics representative of a late gene of the gamma-1 class. The characterization of the IR5 gene at the DNA and RNA levels will facilitate ongoing studies to identify and characterize the IR5 polypeptide.
African swine fever is a devastating disease of swine caused by an icosahedral enveloped DNA virus which grows in the cytoplasm of infected cells. The virus infects domestic pigs and African or European wild boars, and can be transmitted by soft ticks. A peculiar feature of the infection is the lack of induction of neutralizing antibodies, which has prevented the production of a conventional vaccine. The viral particle contains about 50 proteins, including cell proteins like actin and tubulins that are specificly encapsidated. In contrast to most enveloped viruses, there is no glycoprotein in the virus particle. The viral genome is a double-stranded DNA molecule of about 180 kbp. The extremes of the viral DNA are cross-linked by short imperfectly paired hairpin loops which are complementary to each other. At the ends of the genome there are also terminal inverted repeats composed of tandems of short direct repeats. The virus grows in swine macrophages but can easily be adapted to grow in monkey cells. Penetration is done by receptor-mediated endocytosis. Although the presence of the nucleus is required, viral replication occurs only in the cytoplasm. The virus particle thus has all the enzymes needed for early transcription and processing of mRNA. More than one hundred virus-induced proteins can be identified. The kinetics of synthesis are complex. Inhibitors of DNA replication can distinguish between early proteins, synthesized before DNA replication, and late proteins, that depend on the synthesis of viral DNA. Replication of the viral DNA is catalyzed by a phosphonoacetic acid-sensitive virus-induced DNA polymerase. The mechanism of DNA replication is not well known. Large concatemeres seem to be an intermediate in replication.
The synthesis of a novel virus thymidine kinase activity, a phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-sensitive DNA polymerase activity, and more than 30 virus-specified polypeptides can be detected in infected cells during a productive cycle of herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) replication (8, 16, 18, 23) . We have begun a detailed characterization of the regulation and properties of these virus gene products. In the presence of concentrations of PAA that inhibit the synthesis of virus DNA, a distinct subset of early virus-specified polypeptides whose synthesis was insensitive to PAA (e.g., 110K, 76K, 48 to 51K, 29 to 31K, 24K, and 21K) could be differentiated from late proteins (19), the synthesis of which was sensitive to PAA (e.g., 220K, 160K, 150K, 130K, 117K, 38K, 32K, and 12K). The early group of virus proteins includes nonstructural DNA-binding proteins of 110K and 48 to 51K (2) and a major immediate-early protein of 52K (23a). The late group includes the major polypeptides of the virus capsid (e.g., 150K), nonglycosylated noncapsid components of the virion (160K and 130K), as well as the multiple glycosylated species in the infected cell and the virus particle (i.e., 170 to 220K, 125 to 145K, 117K, 83 to 88K, 65 to 75K, 52 to 58K, 25 to 27K, and 12.5 to 13K) (unpublished observations; 10, 21, 22).
Two different DNA polymerases have been purified and characterized from human platelets. In the mitochondrial fraction a unique activity of the polymerase gamma type has been found. The same enzyme is found in the extramitochondrial supernatant. A second DNA polymerase, called 'cytoplasmic' DNA polymerase has been found in the 10000 x g supernatant of human platelets. The following properties of the latter DNA polymerase from human platelets are identical to those of DNA polymerase alpha from normal cells: DEAE-cellulose and phosphocellulose chromatography, size, thermal stability, phosphonoacetic acid and ethidium bromide inhibition. However, some of its properties, like high resistance to N-ethylmaleimide and the lack of DNA polymerization using synthetic RNA primers, are those of DNA polymerase beta.
A study of the carbon steel/cooling water interface was carried out using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). EIS spectra reveal that a layer of corrosion and scale products forms naturally and evolves with the immersion time modifying the carbon steel/cooling water interface and giving rise to corrosion and scale processes. In addition, the nature of the layer formed on the metal was found to depend on the inhibitor used. It was established that the corrosion inhibitor (hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPA)) chelates with Ca(II) ion generating a layer with resistive properties that provides good protection against corrosion. In contrast, the scale inhibitor (1-hydroxy-ethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid (HEDP)) is incorporated into the calcium carbonate crystals at the surface, modifying the structure and diminishing scale formation in the surface; this additive additionally inhibited corrosion. These observations were supported by scanning electronic microscopy (SEM) and corroborate previous studies performed by other techniques on HPA and HEDP. Finally, a synergistic effect was observed between these inhibitors that provides good protection to steel against corrosion and scaling in cooling media.
When herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) DNA replication is blocked by viral polymerase inhibitors, such as phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or acyclovir (ACV), UL29 (ICP8) localizes to numerous punctate nuclear foci which are called prereplicative sites. Since this pattern can form in cells infected with mutants which are defective in UL5, UL8, UL9, or UL52 in the presence of polymerase inhibitors (C. J. Lukonis and S. K. Weller, J. Virol. 70:1751-1758, 1996; L. M. Liptak, S. L. Uprichard, and D. M. Knipe, J. Virol. 70:1759-1767, 1996), we previously proposed that it is unlikely that these numerous UL29 foci actually represent a functional subassembly of viral replication proteins that could lead to the formation of replication compartments (C. J. Lukonis and S. K. Weller, J. Virol. 70:1751-1758, 1996). In this paper, we have investigated the requirement for formation of the prereplicative site pattern by using double mutants of HSV. From the analysis of mutants lacking both UL5 and UL9, we conclude that neither viral helicase is required for the prereplicative site pattern to form as long as a polymerase inhibitor is present. From the analysis of mutants defective in both UL30 and UL5, we suggest that the prereplicative site pattern can form under conditions in which viral and/or cellular polymerases are inhibited. Furthermore, reexamination of the UL29 staining pattern in cells infected with wild-type virus in the presence of PAA reveals that at least two different UL29 staining patterns can be detected in these cells. One population of cells contains numerous (greater than 20) punctate UL29 foci which are sites of cellular DNA synthesis. In another population of cells, fewer punctate foci (less than 15) are detected, and these structures do not colocalize with sites of cellular DNA synthesis. Instead, they colocalize with PML, a component of nuclear matrix structures known as ND10. We propose that ND10-associated UL29 sites represent domains at which replication compartments form.
We investigated the suitability of alpha-bromophosphonoacetic acid (alpha-BrPAA) to act as a possible irreversible inhibitor of Na(+)-dependent transport of Pi across renal brush-border membrane (BBM). When added directly into the Pi uptake medium, alpha-BrPAA causes specific, competitive [apparent inhibition constant (Ki) = 0.33 mM; no change in maximum velocity (Vmax)], and reversible (by washing) inhibition of Na+ gradient [Na+o greater than Na+i]-dependent uptake of Pi by BBM vesicles (BBMV). Next, BBMV were preincubated with 5 mM alpha-BrPAA in alkaline (pH 9) medium for 30 min, then twice washed by 1:100 dilution and recentrifugation, and tested for transport and other properties. This preincubation of BBMV with alpha-BrPAA in alkaline medium resulted in a different type of inhibition [lower Vmax; no change in Michaelis constant (Km)] of the Na+ gradient-dependent uptake of 32Pi, whereas the uptakes of D-[3H]glucose and other solutes were not altered. This inhibition of Pi transport was not reversed by dilution and washing of BBMV. The BBMV Na(+)-dependent binding of [14C]phosphonoformic acid, but not of [3H]phlorizin, was decreased; activities of BBM marker enzymes were not changed. Results suggest that alpha-BrPAA binds onto the same locus on luminal surface of BBM on which Pi and Na+ bind and inhibits Na(+)-Pi cotransporter similar to phosphonoformic acid. Furthermore, after a 30-min incubation in alkaline medium, alpha-BrPAA apparently forms a more stable association with BBM in the vicinity of the Na(+)-Pi cotransporter. We thus suggest that alpha-BrPAA acts under these conditions as an apparently irreversible inhibitor of Na(+)-Pi cotransporter in BBM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In raising murine hybridoma antibodies against Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced membrane antigens (MA), we found one antibody that blocked the release of infectious EBV from cultured P3HR-1 cells. This monoclonal antibody (mAb) recognized a 200 kD, phosphonoacetic acid-sensitive (late) MA, and did not directly neutralize virus without complement. When this mAb was added to 33 degrees C-cultured, spontaneously EBV-producing P3HR-1 cells, the intracellular expression of viral capsid antigen and infectious virus was not inhibited, but the appearance of infectious virus in the culture medium was significantly reduced. The duration of this suppression was dependent upon the concentration of the mAb, an effect being observed to a 1:4 X 10(5) titer of the ascites mAb preparation. A more acute effect of suppression of EBV release was observed in a second model of 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate and n-butyrate induction of EBV in 37 degrees C-cultured P3HR-1 cells. Again, intracellular infectious virus production was not inhibited, but the level of infectious virus in the culture medium was significantly reduced as early as 1 and 2 d of culture with antibody. This effect was reversed within 31 h after replacement of mAb-containing medium with fresh medium. This description of antibody-mediated inhibition of EBV release might lead to the characterization of another form of immune defense for the control of EBV infections.
Previously, it has been reported that phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was effective against HCMV replication by virtue of interference with virus-induced DNA polymerase activity and therefore impeding viral DNA replication (Huang, 1975). However, PAA was found to have limited therapeutic value because of its potential bone deposition effect. Recently, we also examined the effect of a potent antiherpetic nucleoside analogue, namely acycloguanosine (ACV) (Elion et al., 1977) , on HCMV replication. The results revealed that HCMV was somewhat resistant to ACV and viral DNA synthesis was not impaired by the drug even at the high concentration of 200 IXM (Mar et al., 1982) .
Episomal reporter plasmids containing the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) oriP sequence stably transfected into Akata Burkitt's lymphoma cells were used to analyze EBV lytic cycle gene regulation. First, we found that the Zp promoter of EBV, but not the Rp promoter, can be activated in the absence of protein synthesis in these oriP plasmids, casting doubt on the immediate early status of Rp. An additional level of regulation of Zp was implied by analysis of a mutation of the ZV element. Second, our analysis of late lytic cycle promoters revealed that the correct relative timing, dependence on ori lyt in cis, and sensitivity to inhibitors of DNA replication were reconstituted on the oriP plasmids. Late promoter luciferase activity from oriP plasmids also incorporating replication-competent ori lyt was phosphonoacetic acid sensitive, a hallmark of EBV late genes. A minimal ori lyt, which only replicates weakly, was sufficient to confer late timing of expression specifically on late promoters. Finally, deletion analysis of EBV late promoter sequences upstream of the transcription start site confirmed that sequences between −49 and +30 are sufficient for late gene expression, which is dependent on ori lyt in cis. However, the TATT version of the TATA box found in many late genes was not essential for late expression.
Summary ::: Balb/c-3T3 mouse cells were found to be highly restricted non-permissive hosts for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) strain Towne. These cells did not produce infectious progeny virions, did not permit virus DNA replication, and allowed expression of only a single, major, virus-specific, immediate-early polypeptide. Virus DNA synthesis was examined by three different experimental approaches. In infected Balb/c-3T3 cells, no 32P-labelled newly synthesized DNA was found at the virus density in CsCl gradients and no virus-specific fragments were detected after cleavage with restriction enzymes. Similarly, hybridization experiments revealed no net increase in total virus DNA over the amount of input virus-specific DNA sequences. In contrast, infected permissive human fibroblast cells synthesized 32P-labelled virus-specific DNA fragments and accumulated greatly increased amounts of total hybridizing virus DNA. Experiments with a cloned BamHI L-S joint fragment probe provided evidence for the formation of either circular or concatemeric replicative forms of HCMV DNA in which all half-molar terminal fragments were missing and the proportion of quarter-molar joint fragments increased. These forms were abundant in the first 48 h after infection of permissive human cells and mature linear monomeric forms accumulated thereafter. No detectable joining of the termini of input virus DNA occurred in either non-permissive Balb/c-3T3 cells or in human fibroblast cells in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid. In the infected Balb/c-3T3 cells a single major protein corresponding to the 68K immediate-early polypeptide could be detected within 2 h after cycloheximide reversal. Few, if any, other virus proteins were synthesized at later times or in the absence of inhibitors. The 68K protein was overproduced in Balb/c-3T3 cells to such an extent that it became a major component of the nuclear fraction and could be readily detected by direct staining procedures in polyacrylamide gels.
The corrosion and corrosion inhibition of mild steel in groundwater using 1-(2-pyrrolecarbonyl)-benzotriazole (PBTA) and 1-(2-thienylcarbonyl)-benzotriazole (TBTA) with 2-phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), 4-phosphonobutyric acid (PBA), and Zn2+ at various temperatures ranging from 30 to 60 °C were reported. The study was performed using potentiodynamic polarization (PDP) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) along with X-ray diffraction (XRD) and Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) investigations. PDP measurements proved that the presence of inhibitors decreases the corrosion of still by decreasing its corrosion current density. EIS data showed that the charge transfer resistance of steel increases in the groundwater containing inhibitors. XRD and SEM investigations confirmed that the inhibition of mild steel is achieved by the adsorption of the inhibitor molecules on the steel surface. All results indicated that the presence of PBTA and TBTA along with Zn2+ as well as PBA offered good inhibition effi...
The synthesis and structural characterization of a new series of ethylzinc carboxylates are reported. Structurally diverse complexes were derived from three monofunctional carboxylic acids with different numbers of phenyl groups on the α-carbon, and two bifunctional carboxylic acids with a neutral donor terminus, namely, methoxyacetic and diethylphosphonoacetic acids. Donor solvents are commonly used in various transformations of alkylzinc carboxylates; therefore, the effect of THF as a donor solvent on the reaction outcome was also investigated. Reactions of equimolar amounts of Et2Zn and the selected carboxylic acid in THF solutions gave ethylzinc carboxylates with a large variety of structures. In the cases of triphenylacetic and diphenylacetic acids, THF solvated products of stoichiometry [EtZn(O2CR)(THF)] were isolated as a dimer and a 1D coordination polymer, respectively, whereas, with methoxyacetic acid, a novel solvent-free hexanuclear structural motif with a butterfly-like framework was formed, ...
Enhanced survival of UV-irradiated HSV-1 is demonstrated in monkey cells exposed to inhibitors of viral DNA synthesis. Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), adenine arabinoside (ara-A), and cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) pretreatment of infected cells is associated with concentration-dependent reactivation of UV-HSV-1. At concentrations that result in enhanced virus survival, inhibition of cell DNA synthesis is observed by either ara-A or ara-C, but not by PAA. Pretreatment of uninfected cells with acycloguanosine (ACG) is not associated with reactivation of irradiated HSV-1, and this is probably due to insufficient generation of ACG-triphosphate, the active inhibitor of viral and cell DNA synthesis.
DNA synthesis in chromatin isolated from herpes simplex virus type 1-infected HeLa cells (HSV chromatin) was examined in vitro. The HSV chromatin was found to carry out an initial limited synthesis of DNA in vitro, 50 to 64 pmol of dTMP incorporated in 10(6) nuclei per 10 min, which is comparable to that found in nuclei isolated from HSV-infected cells. DNA synthesis in vitro proceeded for only 30 min, and both HSV DNA and host DNA were synthesized in significant amounts. The HSV and host DNA synthesis in isolated chromatin were inhibited to the same extent by anti-HSV antiserum or by phosphonoacetic acid. The results indicate that the HSV-induced DNA polymerase is most likely involved in the synthesis of host and HSV DNA in isolated chromatin, even though this chromatin contains small amounts of the host gamma-polymerase in addition to the HSV-induced DNA polymerase. The HSV chromatin contains no detectable levels of DNA polymerases alpha and beta, even though infected cells have normal, or increased, levels of these enzymes.
Given the kinetics of induction, we hypothesized that events occurring mid to late 114 infection were responsible for pre-tRNA accumulation, as opposed to a cellular response to viral 115 binding and entry. In agreement with this hypothesis, infection of MC57G fibroblasts with UV-116 inactivated MHV68 did not lead to pre-tRNA-Tyr induction (Figure 1D). Additionally, wild type 117 MHV68 infection of the MC57G fibroblast cell line led to an induction similar to NIH3T3s. UV-118 inactivation prevented post-entry viral gene expression, as demonstrated by the absence of 119 expression of the immediate early viral gene ORF50. To narrow down the gene class 120 responsible for the kinetics of tRNA induction, we performed infections in the presence of 121 phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), which blocks viral DNA replication and prevents the expression of 122 viral late genes, such as gB. Although late gene expression was inhibited, pre-tRNA-Tyr 123 accumulated to similar levels in cells infected in the presence of PAA (Figure 1E). Thus, one or 124 more effects of early viral gene expression underlie pre-tRNA accumulation during MHV68 125 infection. Together, these data demonstrate that early viral gene expression drives the 126 increased abundance of host pre-tRNAs. 127 128 Dm-tRNA-seq reveals upregulation of premature tRNAs during infection 129 Extensive base modification of tRNAs can prevent reverse transcription of full-length 130 cDNA products. Although there are some modifications present in pre-tRNAs, they likely have 131 not undergone extensive modification and therefore are more efficiently amplified relative to 132 mature tRNAs during reverse transcription (4, 29). Amplification of full-length cDNA products 235 were induced about 5-fold at 16 and 20 hpi but increased to a nearly 15-fold induction at 24 hpi,
Abstract A rabbit antiserum has been prepared against the B95-8 transforming strain of EBV. The antiserum has a high virus neutralizing titer (∼1:1000) against both the marmoset B95-8 EBV and the human P3HR-1 EBV. The neutralizing antibodies may be absorbed completely with EBV producer cell lines, but not with nonproducer cell lines or producer cell lines treated with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) so as to be nonproducer. After repeated absorption with PAA-treated B95-8, the serum remains reactive with the membranes of producer cell lines as judged by immunofluorescence or the 125 I-Staphylococcal protein A radioimmunoassay. Thus the neutralizing antigens are expressed on the membranes of producer cell lines and may be purified from this source using the serum and 125 I-Staph A binding as an assay. The ability of the serum to differentiate between producer and nonproducer cells by means of cell surface determinants has been exploited to achieve a separation of these two populations from the same culture. Immunoprecipitation by the protein A technique shows that the serum recognizes two polypeptides from producer cells of approximate molecular weights 150,000 and 75,000.
The role of acyclovir-sensitive herpes simplex virus (HSV) was analyzed in the process of its replacement by a resistant virus in vitro and in vivo in the aspect of acyclovir therapy. The mode of replacement of acyclovir-sensitive HSV with acyclovir-resistant HSV was examined by the passages of acyclovir-sensitive wild type HSV in Vero cells under acyclovir-treatment. The development of resistance was monitored more adequately by counting the number of acyclovir-resistant viruses in 10,000 plaque forming units than by the conventional susceptibility assay. The resistance increased with the proportion of thymidine kinase-deficient (TK−) viruses, when the susceptibilities of acyclovir-treated HSV population to 5′-iodo-2′deoxyuridine and phosphonoacetic acid were examined. The increased resistance was due to the increased proportion of acyclovir-resistant virus but not intermediately resistant virus. Infection with mixtures of TK− and acyclovir-sensitive strains rendered TK− sensitive to acyclovir, and virus yields were reduced to the levels of acyclovir-sensitive virus in Vero cells. Their yield reduction depended on the proportion of acyclovir-sensitive viruses and induction of TK activity. This reduction in virus yields of the mixture of TK− and acyclovir-sensitive strains was confirmed by acyclovir treatment in the skin of mice with cutaneous infection. Acyclovir treatment combined with superinfection of acyclovir-sensitive virus delayed the development of herpetic skin lesions due to acyclovir-resistant virus and reduced virus yields in the infected skin. Acyclovir-sensitive virus plays an important role in suppressing the generation and replication of acyclovir-resistant virus during acyclovir therapy. J. Med. Virol. 72:112–120, 2004. © 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The Epstein--Barr (EB) virus induced DNA polymerase has been further purified and characterized with respect to nucleotide turnover activity, processiveness of synthesis, and interaction with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). The polymerase as purified through denatured DNA--cellulose chromatography was inseparable from a labile nuclease activity associated with an equally labile DNA-dependent nucleotide turnover function. The EB virus induced DNA polymerase even in the absence of detectable nuclease or nucleotide turnover activity was less processive in its synthesis than were lymphocyte alpha polymerase or procaryotic polymerases, and this processiveness decreased with increasing purity of the enzyme. PAA was shown to inhibit nucleotide incorporation by the EB virus induced DNA polymerase in the presence of nuclease-activated native DNA template in the manner of a pyrophosphate analogue. Under conditions in which the concentration of 3'-hydroxyl termini in the template was more limited, PAA was not inhibitory. PAA likewise failed to significantly decrease the processiveness and the nucleotide turnover function of the polymerase.
Phosphonoacetic acid had a significant antiviral effect when applied topically, both in liquid and ointment preparations, on superficial herpetic keratitis in rabbits and was equally as effective as idoxuridine. It was also effective in the treatment of idoxuridine-resistant herpetic keratitis. Phosphonoacetic acid was not effective in the treatment of experimental herpetic iritis when applied topically but was significantly effective when administered intravenously and subconjunctivally. No significant local or systemic toxicity was encountered.
CoCr alloy is commonly used in various cardiovascular medical devices for its excellent physical and mechanical properties. However, the formation of blood clots on the alloy surfaces is a serious concern. This research is focused on the surface modification of CoCr alloy using varying concentrations (1, 25, 50, 75, and 100 mM) of phosphoric acid (PA) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) to generate various surfaces with different wettability, chemistry, and roughness. Then, the adsorption of blood plasma proteins such as albumin and fibrinogen and the adhesion, activation, and aggregation of platelets with the various surfaces generated were investigated. Contact angle analysis showed PA and PAA coatings on CoCr provided a gradient of hydrophilic surfaces. FTIR showed PA and PAA were covalently bound to CoCr surface and formed different bonding configurations depending on the concentrations of coating solutions used. AFM showed the formation of homogeneous PA and PAA coatings on CoCr. The single and dual protein adsorption studies showed that the amount of albumin and fibrinogen adsorbed on the alloy surfaces strongly depend on the type of PA and PAA coatings prepared by different concentrations of coating solutions. All PA coated CoCr showed reduced platelet adhesion and activation when compared to control CoCr. Also, 75 and 100 mM PA-CoCr showed reduced platelet aggregation. For PAA coated CoCr, no significant difference in platelet adhesion and activation was observed between PAA coated CoCr and control CoCr. Thus, this study demonstrated that CoCr can be surface modified using PA for potentially reducing the formation of blood clots and improving the blood compatibility of the alloy.
Abstract ::: Treatment of mice with phosphonoacetic acid markedly reduced the incidence of latent ganglionic infection with herpes simplex virus when administered within 24 h after viral inoculation, but had no effect on an already established ganglionic infection.
Abstract ::: Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)-infected human fibroblast (HSV-FS) targets are susceptible to lysis by natural killer (NK) cells, whereas uninfected FS are resistant to lysis. Studies were undertaken to determine the mechanism of this preferential susceptibility. HSV-FS were not intrinsically less stable than FS, as determined by a 51Cr release assay under hypotonic shock in the presence of rat granule cytolysin and by sensitivity to anti-human leukocyte antigen class I antibody plus complement. Single-cell assays in agarose demonstrated that although similar numbers of large granular lymphocytes bound to the HSV-FS and FS targets, the conjugates with HSV-FS were lysed at a much higher frequency than those with FS. These results suggested that both targets are bound by the NK cells but only the HSV-FS were able to trigger lysis. The requirement for active virus expression was demonstrated by failure of emetine-treated HSV-FS targets or targets infected with UV-inactivated HSV to be lysed by NK effectors. To evaluate the role of viral glycoproteins in conferring susceptibility to lysis, Fab were prepared from HSV-1-seropositive sera; these Fab were unable to block lysis of the HSV-FS. Furthermore, incubation in phosphonoacetic acid failed to reduce NK(HSV-FS) activity despite sharp reductions in viral glycoprotein synthesis. Finally, targets infected with tsLB2 at the nonpermissive temperature were lysed as well as or better than targets infected with wild-type virus, indicating that HSV immediate-early gene product expression is sufficient for conferring susceptibility to lysis. We conclude that expression of nonstructural viral proteins or virally induced cellular gene products early in the course of infection rather than structural glycoproteins is required for NK lysis of HSV-FS targets.
Abstract ::: Using indirect immunofluorescence, well-characterized monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, and temperature-sensitive (ts) mutants of herpes simplex virus type 1, we demonstrated that the 65-kilodalton DNA-binding protein (65KDBP), the major DNA-binding protein (infected cell polypeptide 8 [ICP8]), and the viral DNA polymerase (Pol) colocalize to replication compartments in the nuclei of infected cells under conditions which permit viral DNA synthesis. When viral DNA synthesis was blocked by incubation of the wild-type virus with phosphonoacetic acid, the 65KDBP, Pol, and ICP8 failed to localize to replication compartments. Instead, ICP8 accumulated nearly exclusively to prereplication sites, while the 65KDBP was only diffusely localized within the nuclei. Although some of the Pol accumulated in prereplication sites occupied by ICP8 in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, a significant amount of Pol also was distributed throughout the nuclei. Examination by double-labeling immunofluorescence of DNA- ts mutant virus-infected cells revealed that the 65KDBP also did not colocalize with ICP8 to prereplication sites at temperatures nonpermissive for virus replication. These results are in disagreement with the hypothesis that ICP8 is the major organizational protein responsible for attracting other replication protein to prereplication sites in preparation for viral DNA synthesis (A. de Bruyn Kops and D. M. Knipe, Cell 55:857-868, 1988), and they suggest that other viral proteins, perhaps in addition to ICP8, or replication fork progression per se are required to organize the 65KDBP.
Phosphonoacetic acid had a significant antiviral effect when applied topically, both in liquid and ointment preparations, on superficial herpetic keratitis in rabbits and was equally as effective as idoxuridine. It was also effective in the treatment of idoxuridine-resistant herpetic keratitis. Phosphonoacetic acid was not effective in the treatment of experimental herpetic iritis when applied topically but was significantly effective when administered intravenously and subconjunctivally. No significant local or systemic toxicity was encountered.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) is a simple compound that is not an antimetabolite yet has been shown to inhibit herpes simplex virus (HSV) both in vitro and in vivo. A study by Shipkowitz et al. (10) in 1973 first showed that PPA suppressed HSV in tissue cultures, in herpetic dermatitis in mice, and in herpetic keratitis in rabbits. Recently, Gerstein et al. (3) showed that topical PAA was able to suppress clinical disease and virus replication in established herpetic keratitis in rabbits and was equivalent to idoxuridine (IDU) ointment. PAA appears to achieve its antiviral effect by inhibiting viral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) synthesis (8). Preliminary results have indicated that PAA specifically inhibits the viral DNAdependent DNA polymerase (7) and does not inhibit normal cellular DNA polymerases. Since PAA is not an antimetabolite and has no significant effect on host ribonucleic acid or DNA synthesis, we designed a series of experiments to compare PAA against other antiviral agents and to test its effect against deeper ocular herpetic infections and IDU-resistant keratitis in rabbits.
Summary ::: Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), purified exclusively from the extracellular media, contained a DNA polymerase activity in addition to a protein kinase activity. The DNA polymerase expressed its maximum activity in the presence of 5 to 10 mm-MgCl2. The enzyme was able to use effectively activated calf thymus DNA, poly(dA).oligo(dT)12–18 and poly(dC).oligo(dG)12–18 as the template primers. The DNA polymerizing activity was eluted with 0.18 to 0.2 m-KCl from a phosphocellulose column. It was relatively resistant to phosphonoacetic acid inhibition even at a high concentration of 100 µg/ml with activated calf thymus DNA as the template primer, but the DNA polymerase activity was totally suppressed at this concentration when poly(dA).oligo(dT)12–18 was used as the template primer. The enzyme activity was inhibited by ammonium sulphate at 0.01 to 0.3 m with either activated calf thymus DNA or poly(dA).oligo(dT)12–18 as the template primer. The protein kinase has maximum activity in the presence of 10 to 20 mm-MgCl2, and preferred virion proteins as phospho-acceptor to protamine sulphate. Histone, caesin and bovine serum albumin (BSA) were found to be poor substrates. The phosphorylated protein pattern of the in vivo [32P]orthophosphate-labelled virions was not identical to that of the in vitro phosphorylated Nonidet P40-dissociated virions, although seven phosphorylated polypeptides did co-migrate in SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Procedures known to solubilize virions showed that the DNA polymerase and protein kinase were internal components of the virion.
A somewhat unique characteristic of EcPFK is that both of the allosteric ligands, activator MgADP and inhibitor phospho-enol-pyruvate (PEP), bind at the same effector-binding site. This study attempts to understand why two different ligands binding to an identical binding site propagate such markedly different effects. Here we investigated the role that functional groups in PEP play in ligand binding and allosteric propagation via thermodynamic linkage analysis. Previously reported data suggested a potential interaction between PEP and serine 58 in EcPFK contributes substantially to ligand binding and plays a lesser role in allosteric signal propagation. By mutating Ser58 to Ala, Cys, and Asn we have further probed its interaction with PEP. When the Ala, Cys, and Asn mutants were examined, an increase in Kd for PEP of 90x, 30x, and 160x, respectively, that of wild type EcPFK was observed. Each mutant also displays somewhat diminished allosteric inhibition, however allosteric propagation was affected to a lesser degree than binding. In the presence of MgADP the Ala, Cys, and Asn variants exhibit a Kd of 0.25mM, 0.038mM, and 2.8mM, respectively. Comparing the values to wild type EcPFK, with Kd equal to 0.073mM, we see strong changes in Kd while two of the three mutations showed little to no change in allosteric activation. Though these data provide more evidence of a larger role for Ser58 in inhibition relative to activation, no affect on the nature of allosteric phenomena is observed for either MgADP or PEP in the mutants. Also, the examination of inhibitor analogs phosphonoacetic acid, 2-carboxyethylphosphonic acid, and 2-phosphonomethylacrylic acid in the above mutations further strengthens the hypothesis that Ser58 plays a larger role in ligand binding than allosteric coupling. Funding provided by NIH grant GM33216 and the Welch Foundation.
Summary ::: In order to examine the involvement of microtubules in the virus-induced cytopathic effect (c.p.c.), the effect of virus infection on the formation of micro-tubular paracrystals (PC) induced by 10 µg/ml of vinblastine sulphate in HeLa-S3 cells was examined by phase-contrast microscopy. In poliovirus-infected cells, c.p.e. (cell rounding) and the inhibition of PC formation proceeded in parallel, starting 4 h post-infection. In Sendai virus-infected cells, however, PC formation was not inhibited even 24 h post-infection when most infected cells clearly showed c.p.e. (syncytial formation). ::: In adenovirus-infected cells, the inhibition of PC formation was observed 9 h before the appearance of c.p.e. Cytosine arabinoside (ara C) did not block the inhibition of PC formation in infected cells, but blocked the appearance of late c.p.e. (nuclear alteration). Cycloheximide blocked both the inhibition of PC formation and the induction of late c.p.e. These results suggest that an early protein synthesized de novo by adenovirus is required for direct or indirect inhibition of the microtubular PC formation. Furthermore, on ultraviolet (u.v.) inactivation of adenovirus both activities (induction of early c.p.e. shown by shrinkage of cytoplasm, and inhibition of PC formation) followed the same inactivation curve and were inactivated at a slower rate than viral infectivity and the activity leading to late c.p.e. The u.v. light sensitive target responsible for the induction of early c.p.e. and the inhibition of PC formation is about 20% of that for infectivity and is in accord with the genome size of the early functioning virus genes. ::: In herpes simplex virus (HSV)-infected cells, the inhibition of PC formation, the appearance of c.p.e. (cell rounding and disappearance of nucleoli) and the synthesis of V antigen proceeded in parallel. These three functions of HSV were not blocked in infected cells even when the de novo synthesis of virus DNA was inhibited by ara C or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), whereas these three functions were blocked by cycloheximide, suggesting that a protein coded by the input virus genome early after infection inhibits the microtubular PC formation and is responsible for c.p.e. From the u.v. inactivation curve of HSV, it was confirmed that only one-tenth of virus genome was responsible for both activities (induction of c.p.e. and inhibition of PC formation).
The kinetic and regulatory properties of aspartate carbamoyltransferase (ACTase) of the human pathogen Helicobacter pylori were studied in situ in cell-free extracts. The presence of enzyme activity was established by identifying the end product as carbamoylaspartate using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Activity was measured in all strains studied, including recent clinical isolates. Substrate saturation curves determined employing radioactive tracer analysis or a microtiter colorimetric assay were hyperbolic for both carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate, and there was no evidence for substrate inhibition at higher concentrations of either substrate. The apparent Km were 0.6 and 11.6 mm for carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate, respectively. Optimal pH and temperature were determined as 8.0 and 45 degrees C. Activity was observed with the l- but not the d-isomer of aspartate. Succinate and maleate inhibited enzyme activity competitively with respect to aspartate. The carbamoyl phosphate analogues acetyl phosphate and phosphonoacetic acid inhibited activity in a competitive manner with respect to carbamoyl phosphate. With limiting carbamoyl phosphate purine and pyrimidine nucleotides, tripolyphosphate, pyrophosphate, and orthophosphate inhibited competitively at millimolar concentrations. Ribose and ribose 5-phosphate at 10 mm concentration showed 20 and 35% inhibition of enzyme activity, respectively. N-Phosphonoacetyl-l-aspartate (PALA) was the most potent inhibitor studied, with 50% inhibition of enzyme activity observed at 0.1 microM concentration. Inhibition by PALA was competitive with carbamoyl phosphate (Ki = 0.245 microM) and noncompetitive with aspartate. The kinetic and regulatory data on the activity of the H. pylori enzyme suggest it is a Class A ACTase, but with some interesting characteristics distinct from this class.
Abstract ::: Herpes simplex type 1 (HSV)-infected Vero cells can be permeabilized by a combination of hypotonic shock and a mild emulsifier, gum arabic. Permeabilized cells will incorporate triphosphate precursors into viral and host DNA in vitro in ratios similar to those seen in vivo. This reaction is ATP-dependent and is shown to be replicative by the single strand density shift of DNA synthesized in the presence of BrdUTP. The product is heterogeneous in size, and contains a significant proportion of rapidly sedimenting forms and of unit size (55S) viral DNA. The presence of polyamines and EGTA (a specific chelator of Ca2+ ions) in the labeling medium is shown to be necessary to maintain the integrity of the replicating DNA. The average size of newly synthesized single strands, however, is smaller than seen in vivo. The reaction is sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid added at the time of labeling, at concentrations which inhibit in vivo synthesis only after one hour of pre-exposure. These properties make permeabilized cell monolayers an attractive system for the study of HSV DNA replication.
The objectives of this study were to identify the mechanism(s) of pseudorabies virus (PrV)-induced down-regulation of porcine class I molecules and the viral protein(s) responsible for the effect. The ability of PrV to interfere with the peptide transport activity of TAP was determined by an in vitro transport assay. In this assay, porcine kidney (PK-15) cells were permeabilized with streptolysin-O and incubated with a library of 125I-labeled peptides having consensus motifs for glycosylation in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The efficiency of transport of peptides from the cytosol into the ER was determined by adsorbing the ER-glycosylated peptides onto Con A-coupled Sepharose beads. Dose-dependent inhibition of TAP activity was observed in PrV-infected PK-15 cells. This inhibition, which occurred as early as 2 h postinfection (h.p.i.), reached the maximum level by 6 h.p.i., indicating that TAP inhibition is one of the mechanisms by which PrV down-regulates porcine class I molecules. Infection of cells with PrV in the presence of metabolic inhibitors revealed that cycloheximide a protein synthesis inhibitor, but not phosphonoacetic acid a herpesvirus DNA synthesis inhibitor, could restore the cell surface expression of class I molecules, indicating that late proteins are not responsible for the down-regulation. Infection in the presence of cycloheximide followed by actinomycin-D, which results in accumulation of the immediate-early protein, failed to down-regulate class I, indicating that one or more early proteins are responsible for the down-regulation of class I molecules.
Summary ::: Herpes simplex virus type 2 has been reactivated from the latent state in the footpad and dorsal root ganglia of acycloguanosine-treated BALB/c mice. Virus was also recovered from the footpad tissue but not from the ganglia of denervated, latently infected mice. Treatment in vitro of explanted footpad cultures with acycloguanosine or phosphonoacetic acid did not affect the rate of virus reactivation. In all the isolates examined the virus was found to be acycloguanosine-sensitive. Recovery of virus from footpad tissue of mice after a long period of acycloguanosine treatment supports the theory that virus had been truly latent in the footpad and not in a state of persistent infection.
A manufacturable technology for the production of an antiviral composition containing phosphonoacetic acid, involing РН-alkylation of dimethyl phosphite with methyl chloroacetate under phase-transfer conditions and subsequent in situ hydrolysis of the intermediate product, was developed. The composition showed expressed antiviral effect against herpesviral infections caused by herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 and cytomegalovirus. The composition in the effective concentration range was found to exhibit no cytotoxic effect on VERO green monkey kidney and М-19 human diploid cell cultures. The resulting data suggest potential uses of the composition as an antiviral agent in practical medicine and as an antiviral additive to synthetic detergents for sanitation in health care and food production facilities.
The present paper reports on the induction of two cell surface markers on human lymphoid cells following herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. While both primary and chronic infections of human lymphoid cells led to the induction of receptors for the Fc region of 7S IgG, chronic HSV infection was also characterized by the induction of surface-bound IgM. Surface and intracellular Fc receptors were detected in the human lymphoid cell line, Raji, infected with HSV types 1 and 2. Under optimal conditions with a multiplicity of infection (m.o.i.) of 50 to 100 p.f.u. per cell, this marker was inducible in only about 53% of the infected cells. Kinetic studies revealed the appearance of these receptors at around 5 h following HSV infection and they reached a plateau 16 to 18 h p.i. Interestingly, this Fc receptor expression (i.e. percentage of positive cells) was found to be similar in primary and chronically HSV-infected Raji cells. Both human leukocyte interferon and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), an inhibitor of herpesvirus DNA polymerase activity, effectively inhibited Fc receptor synthesis during primary HSV-infection and these two agents suppressed its induction in chronically HSV-infected Raji (Raji-HSV) cells. This inhibitory or suppressive effect, particularly of PAA, suggests that this HSV-induced Fc receptor may represent a late virus function in the infected cell. Unlike primary HSV infection, about 80% of the chronically HSV-infected Raji cells were found to express surface-bound IgM. This IgM induction was suppressed by long-term interferon treatment but not with PAA-treatment. Superinfection studies of interferon and PAA-treated Raji-HSV cells indicate that only the former would develop Fc receptors suggesting a protective role of this IgM against superinfection by HSV.
Treatment of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1)-infected human embryo lung (HEL) cells with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) resulted in complete inhibition of HSV DNA replication. DNA was extracted from PAA-treated HEL cells infected with HSV-1 and centrifuged in a neutral CsCl density gradient. The HSV DNA sequences in the nuclei of PAA treated cells at 24 hr post infection banded at the same density as free HSV DNA (1.725 g/cm3), but a significant amount of viral DNA sequences were detected in the regions of cell DNA (1.700 g/cm3) as well as in the intermediate fractions as determined by hybridization with 3H HSV complementary RNA. The viral DNA sequences of lower density did not change in density by recentrifugation in a CsCl density gradient, but did change to the density of free viral DNA after treatment with EcoR1 restriction endonuclease. When the DNA from the nuclei of PAA treated cells was analyzed in an alkaline glycerol gradient, more than 95% of the viral DNA sequences were found in the free viral DNA fractions. Since the viral and cellular hybrid DNA represented approximately 33% of the total viral DNA sequences, it is concluded that some of the HSV DNA sequences in PAA treated, infected cells are associated with cell DNA by alkali-labile bonds.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), purified exclusively from the extracellular media, contained a DNA polymerase activity in addition to a protein kinase activity. The DNA polymerase expressed its maximum activity in the presence of 5 to 10 mM-MgC12. The enzyme was able to use effectively activated calf thymus DNA, poly(dA).oligo(dT)~2_ls and poly(dC).oligo(dG)12_18 as the template primers. The DNA polymerizing activity was eluted with 0.18 to 0.2 M-KC1 from a phosphocellulose column. It was relatively resistant to phosphonoacetic acid inhibition even at a high concentration of 100 #g/ml with activated calf thymus DNA as the template primer, but the DNA polymerase activity was totally suppressed at this concentration when poly(dA).oligo(dT)~2_~s was used as the template primer. The enzyme activity was inhibited by ammonium sulphate at 0.01 to 0-3 M with either activated calf thymus DNA or poly(dA).oligo(dT)~2_~8 as the template primer. The protein kinase has maximum activity in the presence of 10 to 20 mM-MgC12, and preferred virion proteins as phospho-acceptor to protamine sulphate. Histone, caesin and bovine serum albumin (BSA) were found to be poor substrates. The phosphorylated protein pattern of the in vivo [32p]orthophosphate-labelled virions was not identical to that of the in vitro phosphorylated Nonidet P40-dissociated virions, although seven phosphorylated polypeptides did co-migrate in SDSpolyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Procedures known to solubilize virions showed that the DNA polymerase and protein kinase were internal components of the virion.
In herpes simplex virus (HSV)-infected cells, the inhibition of PC formation, the appearance of c.p.e. (cell rounding and disappearance of nucleoli) and the synthesis of V antigen proceeded in parallel. These three functions of HSV were not blocked in infected cells even when the de novo synthesis of virus DNA was inhibited by ara C or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), whereas these three functions were blocked by cycloheximide, suggesting that a protein coded by the input virus genome early after infection inhibits the microtubular PC formation and is responsible for c.p.e. From the u.v. inactivation curve of HSV, it was confirmed that only one-tenth of virus genome was responsible for both activities (induction of c.p.e, and inhibition of PC formation).
The present paper reports on the induction of two cell surface markers on human lymphoid cells following herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. While both primary and chronic infections of human lymphoid cells led to the induction of receptors for the Fc region of 7S IgG, chronic HSV infection was also characterized by the induction of surface-bound IgM. Surface and intracellular Fc receptors were detected in the human lymphoid cell line, Raji, infected with HSV types 1 and 2. Under optimal conditions with a multiplicity of infection (m.o.i.) of 50 to IOO p.f.u, per cell, this marker was inducible in only about 53 of the infected cells. Kinetic studies revealed the appearance of these receptors at around 5 h following HSV infection and they reached a plateau I6 to 18 h p.i. Interestingly, this Fc receptor expression (i.e. percentage of positive cells) was found to be similar in primary and chronically HSV-infected Raji cells. Both human leukocyte interferon and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), an inhibitor of herpesvirus DNA polymerase activity, effectively inhibited Fc receptor synthesis during primary HSV-infection and these two agents suppressed its induction in chronically HSV-infected Raji (Raji-HSV) cells. This inhibitory or suppressive effect, particularly of PAA, suggests that this HSV-induced Fc receptor may represent a late virus function in the infected cell. Unlike primary HSV infection, about 8o ~o of the chronically HSV-infected Raji cells were found to express surfacebound IgM. This IgM induction was suppressed by long-term interferon treatment but not with PAA-treatment. Superinfection studies of interferon and PAA-treated Raji-HSV cells indicated that only the former would develop Fc receptors suggesting a protective role of this IgM against superinfection by HSV.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits the replication of human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) in mononuclear cells from cord bloods which are susceptible for natural HHV-6 infection in humans. Nuclear extracts of uninfected or HHV-6-infected mononuclear cells were applied to phosphocellulose column chromatography, and DNA polymerase activity was measured with or without the addition of 100 mM ammonium sulfate. The major DNA polymerase activities eluted at 0.47 M KCl were suppressed in both uninfected and HHV-6 infected cells by the addition of 100 mM ammonium sulfate. DNA polymerase activity eluted at 0.47 M KCl was observed only from HHV-6-infected cells; it was enhanced by 100 mM ammonium sulfate and neutralized with immune serum. DNA polymerase activity eluted at 0.73 M KCl was determined to be HHV-6 specific and had the properties of a typical herpesvirus-induced DNA polymerase. PAA inhibited HHV-6-specific DNA polymerase activity.
The effects ofphosphonoacetic acid on the synthesis of herpesvirus saimiri-specific polypeptidesinproductivelyinfected cells wereexamined. Atconcentra-tions that inhibited virus DNAsynthesis (>150 ,ug/ml), phosphonoacetic acidprevented the synthesis of the majority of virus-specific polypeptides whileallowing the synthesis ofa subset ofvirus proteins (i.e., 110,000 [110K], 76K,72K,51K,48K,29K,24K,and20Kor21K)andtheprotracted synthesisofhost-specifiedpolypeptides. Otherinhibitors of
Abstract A murine monoclonal antibody (mAb) 92A recognized a 48-kilodalton Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) early antigen (EA). The mAb stained nuclei of EBV-activated P3HR-1, B95-8 and Akata cells in a distinctive, microgranular immunofluorescence pattern. The 92A antigen was sensitive to methanol-fixation. Expression of the 92A antigen in those cells paralleled diffuse (EA-D) and restricted (EA-R) components of EA, and viral DNA (vDNA) replication. Phosphonoacetic acid did not inhibit expression of the 92A antigen. The colocalization of 92A antigen, EA-D, and vDNA was observed in viral replication compartments of B95-8 cells. On the other hand, in P3HR-1 virus-superinfected Raji cells the percentages of 92A antigen-positive cells were at much lower levels than were EA-D and -R positive cells. I mmunofluorescence staining with 92A mAb was blocked by pretreatment with EBV-positive human sera, but not with EBV-negative sera. We conclude that 92A mAb recognizes a novel EA which may function in vDNA replication.
Formation of phosphine and methane in anaerobic incubation systems was investigated under stirred and unstirred conditions. The PH3 and CH4 levels in the headspace, as well as the matrix-bound PH3 content in the stirred soil, significantly increased upon the addition of phosphonoacetic acid (P(O)(OH)2CH2COOH). Both the levels of matrix-bound PH3 and CH4 are positively correlated to the buffered dithionite fraction of reactive phosphorus in the soil samples, while a negative correlation was observed between matrix-bound PH3/CH4 levels and the reactive phosphorus fraction.
Abstract Corrosion inhibition performance of a polyaspartic acid derivative (PASP-AESA-ASP) composite on carbon steel in a seawater environment was studied by real-time tests using corrosion rate, electrochemical and weight loss methods. The composite was prepared by mixing the synthesized PASP-AESA-ASP with zinc sulfate and 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid on a mass ratio of 15:4:6. The PASP-AESA-ASP composite showed a significantly better corrosion inhibition effect than PASP-AESA-ASP, zinc sulfate or 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid alone, with the average corrosion rate of 0.005 mm/y and corrosion inhibition rate of 95% (based on weight loss) achieved. Electrochemical evaluation of the corrosion behavior using potentiodynamic scanning revealed the lowest corrosion rate (Icorr = 1.7 μA/cm2) for the PASP-AESA-ASP composite compared with 2.7 μA/cm2 and 5.3 μA/cm2 for the PASP derivative and uninhibited environments. Improved corrosion inhibition performance of the composite can be attributed to increased number of possible mechanisms working in unison, to include retardation of the metal dissolution and formation of protective films and compounds at the anodic/cathodic sites. The results reveal the potential for use of this inhibitor in applications such as desalination plants, and further improvements may be achieved through refinements in the composite blend design and ratios.
A Penicillium oxalicum strain was capable of the phosphate-sensitive utilization of phosphonoacetic acid as the sole source of phosphorus. A carbon-to-phosphorus bond-cleavage enzyme yielding acetic acid and inorganic phosphate was detected and characterized in extracts from cells grown on this phosphonate. Contrary to bacterial phosphonoacetate hydrolases, the fungal enzyme neither required nor was stimulated by divalent cations.
The antiviral activity of (S)-1-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)cytosine (HPMPC, cidofovir, CDV) ( Figure 1 ) against human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and other DNA viruses was first OPEN ACCESS reported in 1986 [1] . In 1996, the intravenous form of CDV was licensed for clinical use, under the trade name of Vistide ® , for the systemic treatment of HCMV retinitis in AIDS patients. CDV is a close congener of HPMPA [(S)-9-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine], which was the first acyclic nucleoside phosphonate (ANP) described with broad spectrum anti-DNA virus activity [1, 2] . This compound can be considered a hybrid between acyclic nucleoside analogs, such as (S)-9-(2,3-dihydroxypropyl)adenine (DHPA), which was previously described as an ANP with broad-spectrum antiviral activity, and a phosphonate analog such as phosphonoformic acic (PFA) or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). PMEA [2-(phosphonylmethoxyethyl)adenine, adefovir] was developed in parallel with HPMPA, whereas HPMPC was derived from HPMPA by simply substituting a pyrimidine (cytosine) for the purine (adenine) moiety. Further modifications of the acyclic side chain of HPMPA led to PMPA [2-(phosphonylmethoxypropyl) adenine] and PMPDAP [2-(phosphonylmethoxypropyl)2,6-diaminopurine]. PMEA displayed potent activity against retroviruses (while maintaining activity against herpes-and hepadnaviruses) while the antiviral activity of PMPA was restricted to retro-and hepadnaviruses.
Phosphonoacetic acid(PAA)inhibited thesynthesis ofherpes simplex virus DNA ininfected cells andtheactivity ofthevirus-specific DNA polymerase in vitro. Inthepresence ofconcentrations ofPAAsufficient toprevent virus growth andvirus DNA synthesis, normal amounts ofearly virus proteins (a-and/8groups) weremade,butlate virus proteins (y-group) werereduced toless than 15%ofamounts madeinuntreated infected cells. Thisresidual PAA-insensitive synthesis ofy-polypeptides occurred early inthevirus growth cycle whenrates wereidentical inPAA-treated anduntreated infected cells. Passage ofvirus in thepresence ofPAA resulted inselection ofmutants resistant tothedrug. Stable clones ofmutantviruses witharangeofdrugsensitivities wereisolated, andtheemergence ofvariants resistant tohighconcentrations ofPAAinvolved thesequential selection ofmutants progressively better adapted togrowth inthe presence ofthedrug. Increased drugresistance ofvirus yield orplaque formationwascorrelated withincreased resistance ofvirus DNA synthesis, y-protein synthesis, andresistance ofthevirus DNA polymerase reaction invitro tothe inhibitory effects ofthedrug. PAA-resistant strains ofherpes simplex virus type 1(HSV-1) complemented thegrowthofsensitive strains ofhomologous and heterologous types inmixedinfections inthepresence ofthedrug. Complementation wasmarkedly dependent upontheproportions oftheresistant and sensitive partners participating inthemixedinfection. Intratypic (HSV-lAx HSV-1B) recombination ofthePAAresistance marker(s), pr,occurred athigh frequency relative toplaque morphology (syn) andbromodeoxyuridine resistance(Br, thymidine kinase-negative phenotype) markers, withthemostlikely order being syn-Br-pr. Recombinant viruses wereasresistant orsensitive to PAAastheparental viruses, andviruses recombinant fortheir PAAresistance phenotype werealso recombinant forthePAAresistance character ofthevirus DNA polymerase. Theresults provide additional evidence thattheherpesvirus DNA polymerase isthesiteofaction ofPAA andillustrate thepotential usefulness ofPAA-resistant mutants ingenetic studies ofherpesviruses.
Wecompared therates ofsynthesis ofherpes simplex virus type1 glycoproteins CandDandquantitated the accumulation oftranslatable mRNA foreachglycoprotein atvarious times after infection. Therateofsynthesis ofgDincreased sharply early intheinfection, peaked by4to6hafter infection, anddeclined late inthe infection. Incontrast, therateofsynthesis ofgCincreased steadily until atleast 15hafter infection. Thelevels ofmRNA forbothofthese glycoproteins, asdetected byhybridization andbytranslation invitro, continued to increase until atleast 15or16hafter infection. Synthesis ofbothgCandgDandtheir respective mRNAswas found tobesensitive toinhibition ofviral DNA replication withphosphonoacetic acid. Thefinding thatreduced amountsofgDweresynthesized late inthereplicative cycle, whereas gDmRNA continued toaccumulate inthe cytoplasm, arguesthatthesynthesis ofgDisregulated, inpart, atthelevel oftranslation. Thetemporal control ofherpes simplex virus (HSV)gene expression during thereplicative cycle depends atleast in partupontheregulation oftranscription ofvarious classes ofmRNAs (ox, 1,andy)(reviewed inreferences 29and30 andbyE.K.Wagner[inB.Roizman, ed.,TheHer-pesviulises, Vol. 3,inpress]). Thepolypeptides produced immediately after infection (immediate-early orapolypeptides) are required fortranscription ofother segments ofthegenome expressed later ininfection (1andypolypeptides). The synthesis oflateory polypeptides, manyofwhichare structural polypeptides, requires thesynthesis of1polypeptides andthereplication ofviral DNA,andthese ypolypeptides arecharacteristically
Abstract ::: The sequence of the BamHI L fragment of B95-8 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA has been determined. The transcription starts of five promoters have been mapped to this fragment, using S1 mapping and either in vitro transcription or the primer extension technique. Dramatically increased levels of cytoplasmic poly(A) + RNAs, transcribed from these promoters, occur after treatment of B95-8 cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). For three of these promoters addition of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits the effect of TPA, indicating that they give rise to late lytic cycle RNAs. The other two promoters give rise to early RNAs. Northern blot analysis indicates that one of the late promoters initiates two transcripts whose size differences are due to different splicing patterns. These two RNAs code for the 350/300 and 250/200 kd envelope glycoproteins of EBV. The sequences of these proteins would be of use in the production of a synthetic vaccine to prevent EBV infection.
Virus-nonproducer Raji cells, when induced to early antigen synthesis by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate and sodium butyrate, showed an increase in DNA polymerase activity. This enzyme has the characteristics of a typical Epstein-Barr virus DNA polymerase with regard to chromatographical pattern and biological properties: it is eluted from DEAE-cellulose at 0.08 M NaCl, has a high salt resistance, is sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid and phosphonoformate, and shows a substrate preference for poly(dC)-oligo(dG12-18). The resistance of Epstein-Barr virus polymerase activity to aphidicolin is a property distinct from that of HSV DNA polymerase. Viral DNA polymerase activity increases in the absence of Epstein-Barr virus DNA replication, indicating that this enzyme is an early viral protein.
Abstract The acyclic nucleotide analogue ( S )-9-(3-hydroxy-2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine [( S )-HPMPA] is a potent and selective inhibitor of African swine fever virus (ASFV) replication. Using the DNA-DNA hybridization technique with plasmid pRPEL-2 as probe, we have shown that ( S )-HPMPA exerts a specific, dose-dependent, inhibitory effect on viral DNA synthesis. Also, ( S )-HPMPA inhibits the production of late viral proteins, especially IP-73, in ASFV-infected MS and Vero cells. When evaluated under the same experimental conditions, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) also caused an inhibition of viral DNA and late viral protein synthesis but only so at a concentration which was 10- to 20-fold higher than that required for ( S )-HPMPA.
Orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRTase) catalyzes the magnesium-dependent conversion of alpha-D-phosphoribosylpyrophosphate (PRPP) and orotate to orotidine 5'-monophosphate (OMP) and pyrophosphate. We have determined kinetic isotope effects on the reaction of OMP with pyrophosphate and with the pyrophosphate analog phosphonoacetic acid. In the latter case, full expression of the kinetic isotope effects allowed us to calculate the structure of the transition state for the pyrophosphorylytic reaction. The transition state resembles a classical oxocarbonium ion. Using the recently reported three-dimensional structures of the OPRTase-OMP (Scapin et al., 1994) and the OPRTase-PRPP complexes (Scapin et al., 1995a), we have modeled the calculated transition state structure into the active site of OPRTase. We propose a detailed chemical mechanism which is consistent with these results.
N-Phosphonoacetyl-L-aspartic acid (PALA), a potent inhibitor of aspartic acid transcarbamylase, is now undergoing Phase I clinical trials. Initial experiments revealed that PALA is not metabolized to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) in humans. Thus PALA may be quantified in serum after in vitro conversion to PAA. Serum is deproteinized with perchloric acid, lipid extracted with methylene chloride, hydrolyzed with 8 N hydrochloric acid at 100 degrees for 3 h, and evaporated to dryness with nitrogen. The residue is silylated, and PAA is quantified by monitoring the (M + 1)+ ions of the protonated molecular ions of trimethylsilyl derivatives of PAA and phosphonopropionic acid (internal standard) obtained in chemical ionization with methane. Limit of detection is 0.5 microM (150 ng/ml) PALA using 1 ml serum. PALA was given by continuous infusion to cancer patients at various doses. Maximum levels of PALA (50-500 microM range) were obtained at the end of infusion, followed in most cases by biexponential decay. Persistent residual PALA levels (5 microM for 48 h after infusion) correlated with increased toxicity.
Virus-nonproducer Raji cells, when induced to early antigen synthesis by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate and sodium butyrate, showed an increase in DNA polymerase activity. This enzyme has the characteristics of a typical Epstein-Barr virus DNA polymerase with regard to chromatographical pattern and biological properties: it is eluted from DEAE-cellulose at 0.08 M NaCl, has a high salt resistance, is sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid and phosphonoformate, and shows a substrate preference for poly(dC)-oligo(dGj2.18).
Abstract Three Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced in vitro systems, EBV-superinfected Raji, IUdR-, and n -butyrate-treated P3HR-1 cells, were studied using a radioimmunoprecipitation method, and the EBV-specific polypeptide profiles were analyzed with anti-EBV human sera. In the three cell systems, 16, 20, and 22 polypeptides were identified, respectively. All 16 polypeptides detectable in the EBV-infected Raji cells belonged to the early products insensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and were also shared by the other two systems. Among these common polypeptides, two with molecular weights of 140,000 (140K) and 120K were identified both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. However, these are not the major components of EA induced in the EBV-infected Raji cells. All other 14 polypeptides were found exclusively in the cytoplasm and were precipitated by all VCA(+)EA(+) sera, indicating that all of these polypeptides are EA components and that 90K, 54K, and 38K in particular are the major constituents of the EA. The six polypeptides (150K, 145K, 75K, 46K, 34K, 18K), which were detectable in n -butyrate-treated P3HR-1 cells, and four of which are common to those in IUdR-treated P3HR-1 cells, are the late virus-specific products sensitive to PAA. In contrast to the early polypeptides, these late products were found both exclusively in the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Among these products the 150K polypeptide is probably the main component of VCA.
Human CMV (HCMV) infection leads to an almost complete inhibition of expression of MHC class I proteins. After infection with HCMV, the biosynthesis of HLA class I molecules was examined in human lung fibroblasts and in mouse fibroblasts transfected with genes encoding the human class I H chain HLA-B27 and human beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2m). In both cell types, we observed a large decrease in steady state levels specific for human class I H chains--both free H chains and those complexed with beta 2m. In the mouse cells transfected with HLA class I, infection did not affect levels and assembly of mouse class I H chains with human beta 2m. The effect of HCMV infection on class I expression is insensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, suggesting the involvement of immediate early or early viral proteins. Pulse-chase analysis showed that the low steady state level of class I H chains in HCMV-infected cells is not the result of a reduced rate of synthesis. Rather, we observed accelerated degradation of class I H chains, regardless of their association with beta 2m. We conclude that HCMV reduces human MHC class I protein levels by interference with the stability of class I H chains.
Phosphate retention in chronic renal failure may result in the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism and renal osteodystrophy. Thus, the addition of a specific phosphaturic agent may be beneficial in the treatment of chronic renal failure. Phosphonoformic acid (PFA), a specific and competitive inhibitor of Na(+)-Pi cotransport in renal and intestinal brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV), can induce phosphaturia in thyroparathyroidectomized (TPTX) rats. The aim of this study was to determine if PFA retains its inhibitory activity in uremic intestine and kidney. The effect of PFA, and its derivative phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), added in vitro, on Pi transport in BBMV prepared from the intestine and the remnant kidney of 5/6 nephrectomized (NX) rats was studied. In intestinal BBMV, the time course of Pi transport was not significantly different between NX and sham-operated (SH) control rats. Compared with SH, Na(+)-dependent Pi transport was reduced in BBMV from remnant kidney of NX, with no difference in Na(+)-independent or equilibrium uptakes. The reduced transport was specific for Pi with no change in Na+ gradient-dependent L-proline uptake, suggesting a normal Na+ conductance in uremic BBM. PFA and PAA produced a marked inhibition of Na(+)-Pi cotransport in intestinal and renal BBMV from NX and SH with similar relative inhibitory potency in uremic and control BBMV. It was concluded that the relative inhibitory potency of PFA or PAA on intestinal and renal Na(+)-Pi cotransport is preserved in uremia.
Growth of lymphoblastoid cells (B95-8, Raji) is not inhibited by the presence of 0.4 mM phosphonoacetic acid. The synthesis of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in the producer line B95-8 is completely inhibited, as shown by the total inhibition of viral capsid antigen synthesis. Early viral antigens are made normally in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, but EBV DNA synthesis is blocked in cells entering the productive cycle. Nonproducer cells in the population replicate the resident EBV DNA by a mechanism that is resistant to phosphonoacetic acid. These results are consistant with the hypotheses that EBV DNA is replicated by two mechanisms, one in the noninduced cell and a different mechanism in the producer cell, and that prior replication of EBV DNA, probably by the second mode, is a prerequisite for late gene expression.
Phosphonoacetic acidinhibited replication ofsimian varicella virus (Delta herpesvirus) intissue culture. Thedrug was tested inpatasmonkeys40hafter infection withDeltaherpesvirus. A total of200mg/kgper daywas given intramuscularly, divided into twodoses every dayfora total of10days. The treated monkeys were protected fromclinical illness, andDelta herpesvirus was notrecovered fromtheir lymphocytes. Complement-fixing andneutralizing antibodytiters were significantly lower inphosphonoacetic acid-treated monkeys thanintheuntreated controls. Inanimals giventhedrugalone, there was dermatitis andblackening oftheskinandhair, serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase andserum glutamic pyruvic transaminase enzymes were significantly increased, andliverbiopsy revealed diffuse cytoplasmic swelling andgranulation ofthehepatocytes. Thetherapeutic rangeofthis drugshould bestudied carefully before considering its useinseverevaricella-zoster infection inhumans. Phosphonoacetic acid(PAA)hasbeenshown tobeaneffective inhibitor ofherpesvirus DNA polymerase synthesis (6,8,9, 11). Thecompound wasactive against herpes keratitis inrabbits and herpes simplex infection inmice(4, 5,12). Kern etal.(7)reported successful treatment ofherpes simplex virus type2infection inmicewhenthey initiated thetreatment byvaginal application of thedrugbeginning 3hafter infection. However, treatment failed whenPAA wasgiven bythe intraperitoneal route. Overall etal. (10) obtained significant protection withPAA administered within 24hafter infection ofmicewithlethal doses ofmurine cytomegalovirus. Theyalso reported that thevirus replication wascompletely inhibited intheliver andbrain andfound lower virus titers intheblood, lung, kidney, andspleen oftreated animals. Delta herpesvirus (DHV)isacell-associated simian herpesvirus thatisantigenically closely related tohumanvaricella-zoster virus (2). It causes severe varicella-like disease inpatas monkeys(Erythrocebuspatas) (1). Humanvaricellazoster virus doesnotproduce disease inpatas monkeys oranyother laboratory animals that wouldpermit theclinical study ofthedisease (13). Thevaricella-like disease produced inpatas monkeys byDHV permits theuseofthis model forstudy ofthetherapeutic value ofantiviral compounds invaricella-zoster infection. We reportherethesusceptibility ofDHV toPAAin vitro, theresults oftreatment ofsimian varicella infection inpatas monkeys withPAA,andthe toxicity ofPAAinmonkeys.
Abstract ::: The genome of murine cytomegalovirus, extracted from extracellular virions, is a linear double-stranded DNA molecule ca. 240 kilobase pairs long. In our initial cloning of subgenomic fragments of the murine cytomegalovirus genome, we obtained a HindIII clone which contained fused HindIII-terminal fragments. By hybridizing this cloned DNA fragment to infected-cell DNA, we identified an intracellular restriction fragment which was the length of the sum of the two authentic termini. This fusion fragment was not present in virion DNA but could be detected as early as 2 h postinfection and reached its highest level shortly after the onset of DNA replication at 16 h postinfection. The prereplicative increase of fused ends was not inhibited by a level of phosphonoacetic acid which effectively shut off viral DNA synthesis, nor was the early conversion from free to fused ends prevented by inhibitors of protein or RNA synthesis. The results are consistent with the fused state of viral DNA being a replicative intermediate and precursor to DNA synthesis.
Abstract Foscarnet is a pyrophosphate analogue with activity against herpesviruses, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and other RNA and DNA viruses. Foscarnet and its analogues achieve their antiviral effects via inhibition of viral polymerases, with such inhibition not being dependent on activation or phosphorylation of the compounds by viral or cellular proteins. Current evidence indicates that foscarnet interferes with exchange of pyrophosphate from deoxynucleoside triphosphate during viral replication by binding to a site on the herpesvirus DNA polymerase or HIV reverse transcriptase. Reviewed herein are basic findings regarding the mechanism of action and antiviral activity of foscarnet and the related compound phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), as well as findings regarding potential mechanisms of viral resistance and interactions with other antiviral agents.
Aim: To identify chelators which when mixed with sodium hypochlorite (NaOCl) are stable, exhibiting minimal loss of free available chlorine (FAC) over 80 min and to further investigate potential mixtures by assessing FAC over 18 h and the capacity to remove smear layer. ::: Methodology: 0.25 mol L−1 EDTA (10%), 0.25 mol L−1 EGTA (egtazic acid), 0.25 mol L−1 CDTA (cyclohexanediaminetetraacetic acid), 0.25 mol L−1 DTPA (pentetic acid), 0.5 mol L−1 ATMP (aminotri(methylene phosphonic acid)) and 1 mol L−1 HPAA, (hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid), all at alkaline pH, were mixed equally with 5% NaOCl. 0.5 mol L−1 alkaline clodronate and 0.5 mol L−1 Na4etidronate (15%) were mixed equally with 10% NaOCl. For all mixtures, the pH and temperature were measured over 80 min and additionally for the clodronate mixture over 18 h. Iodometric titration was used to measure the FAC of all mixtures except for HPAA. The following were compared with respect to their ability to remove smear layer: 1 mol L−1 clodronate + 10% NaOCl, 0.5 mol L−1 clodronate + 10% NaOCl, 1 mol L−1 etidronate + 10% NaOCl, 0.5 mol L−1 clodronate + 10% NaOCl and the sequences 5% NaOCl/17% EDTA/5% NaOCl and 5% NaOCl/17% EDTA. The area fraction occupied by open dentinal tubules as a percentage of the total area (% AF) from scanning electron microscopy micrographs was calculated using Image J. The results were statistically analysed with alpha set at 0.05. ::: Results: Compared to its control, the mixture 0.5 mol L−1 clodronate + 10% NaOCl lost no FAC over 18 h (P > 0.05). The FAC of 0.25 mol L−1 CDTA mixed with 5% NaOCl fell to 96%, 92%, 75% and 4.9% at 20, 40, 60 and 80 min, respectively. Temperature rises were observed in all cases except in the etidronate and clodronate mixtures. Only in the clodronate mixture did the pH remain above pH 12 for the whole experiment. Although smear layer was removed, the % AF in 1 mol L−1 clodronate + 10% NaOCl, 0.5 mol L−1 clodronate + 10% NaOCl, 1 mol L−1 etidronate + 10% NaOCl was less than for 0.5 mol L−1 etidronate + 10% NaOCl and 5% NaOCl/17% EDTA/5% NaOCl and 5% NaOCl/17% EDTA. ::: Conclusion: Alkaline 0.5 mol L−1 clodronate mixed equally with 10% NaOCl has potential for use in continuous chelation, based on this assessment of stability and smear layer removal. Further research is needed to establish its efficacy and safety.
In a rabbit model of herpes simplex corneal ulceration, 5% phosphonoacetic acid solution or ophthalmic ointment suppressed clinical disease and virus replication. The effect of 5% phosphonoacetic acid ointment was equivalent to that of 0.5% idoxuridine ointment in the treatment of this established herpetic eye infection.
The Bacillus subtilis phage luminal diameter 29 DNA polymerase, involved in protein-primed viral DNA replication, was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a known inhibitor of alpha-like DNA polymerases, by decreasing the rate of elongation. Three highly conserved regions of amino acid homology, found in several viral alpha-like DNA polymerases and in the luminal diameter 29 DNA polymerase, one of them proposed to be the PAA binding site, were also found in the T4 DNA polymerase. This prokaryotic enzyme was highly sensitive to the drugs aphidicolin and the nucleotide analogues butylanilino dATP (BuAdATP) and butylphenyl dGTP (BuPdGTP), known to be specific inhibitors of eukaryotic alpha-like DNA polymerases. Two potential DNA polymerases from the linear plasmid pGKL1 from yeast and the S1 mitochondrial DNA from maize have been identified, based on the fact that they contain the three conserved regions of amino acid homology. Comparison of DNA polymerases from prokaryotic and eukaryotic origin showed extensive amino acid homology in addition to highly conserved domains. These findings reflect evolutionary relationships between hypothetically unrelated DNA polymerases.
Chilo iridescent virus (CIV) is the type species for the family Iridoviridae, which are large, isometric, cytoplasmic dsDNA viruses. We examined the mechanism of apoptosis induction by CIV. High CIV doses (CIV{sub XS}; 400 {mu}g/ml), UV-irradiated virus (CIV{sub UV}; 10 {mu}g/ml) and CVPE (CIV protein extract; 10 {mu}g/ml) induced apoptosis in 60% of treated Choristoneura fumiferana (IPRI-CF-124T) cells. Normal doses of infectious CIV (10 {mu}g/ml) induced apoptosis in only 10% of C. fumiferana (CF) cells. Apoptosis was inhibited by Z-IETD-FMK, an apical caspase inhibitor, indicating that CIV-induced apoptosis requires caspase activity. The putative caspase in CF cells was designated Cf-caspase-i. CIV{sub UV} or CVPE enhanced Cf-caspase-i activity by 80% at 24 h relative to mock-treated cells. Since the MAP kinase pathway induces or inhibits apoptosis depending on the context, we used JNK inhibitor SP600125 and demonstrated drastic suppression of CVPE-induced apoptosis. Thus, the JNK signaling pathway is significant for apoptosis in this system. Virus interaction with the cell surface was not sufficient for apoptosis since CIV{sub UV} particles bound to polysterene beads failed to induce apoptosis. Endocytosis inhibitors (bafilomycin or ammonium chloride) negated apoptosis induction by CIV{sub UV}, CIV{sub XS} or CVPE indicating that entry through this mode is required.more » Given the weak apoptotic response to infectious CIV, we postulated that viral gene expression inhibited apoptosis. CIV infection of cells pretreated with cycloheximide induced apoptosis in 69% of the cells compared to 10% in normal infections. Furthermore, blocking viral DNA replication with aphidicolin or phosphonoacetic acid suppressed apoptosis and Cf-caspase-i activity, indicating that early viral expression is necessary for inhibition of apoptosis, and de novo synthesis of viral proteins is not required for induction. We show for the first time that, in a member of the family Iridoviridae, apoptosis: (i) requires entry and endocytosis of virions or virion proteins, (ii) is inhibited under conditions permitting early viral expression, and (iii) requires the JNK signaling pathway. This is the first report of JNK signal requirement during apoptosis induction by an insect virus.« less
Both murine and human strains of cytomegalovirus were shown to be sensitive to the antiviral effects of adenine arabinoside and phosphonoacetic acid in tissue culture. In mice with lethal cytomegalovirus infections, treatment with adenine arabinoside (either 500 mg/kg intraperitoneally once daily or 250 mg/kg intraperitoneally twice daily for seven days) failed to reduce the mortality rate or to decrease the mean number of days until death. In contrast, treatment with the same dosage regimen of phosphonoacetic acid significantly reduced the mortality rate and decreased the mean number of days until death even when therapy was delayed for 24 hr. Although early treatment with phosphonoacetic acid resulted in a marked reduction in viral titers in the brains and lungs of infected mice, the major reason for efficacy appeared to be complete inhibition of viral replication in the liver. The observation that titers of complement-requiring neutralizing antibody were significantly lower in treated animals than in untreated controls is further evidence of successful therapy. Treatment of a nonlethal cytomegalovirus infection with phosphonoacetic acid beginning 48 hr after viral challenge resulted in elimination of clinical signs of illness and reduction in viral titers in tissues. These results indicate that phosphonoacetic acid is successful in the treatment of murine infections with cytomegalovirus; they suggest that this drug should be considered for potential use in serious cytomegalovirus infections in humans.
Abstract ::: A series of clinical isolates of herpes simplex virus type 2 were taken from a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Acyclovir (ACV) susceptibility assays revealed that some isolates were resistant to ACV and cross-resistant to ganciclovir but not to phosphonoacetic acid. The nature of the resistance was examined further. A number of cloned variants were generated, and thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase assays were carried out. Variants that were resistant to ACV were found to be thymidine kinase deficient. Evidence for alteration in the DNA polymerase was not found when ACV triphosphate or phosphonoacetic acid was used as the inhibitor. In vivo studies with the plaque-purified viruses showed that ACV resistance was associated with a reduced neurovirulence. In a zosteriform model, virus resistant to ACV was unable to induce secondary spread in the same dermatome, to invade the peripheral nervous system or the central nervous system, or to establish latent infections.
Varicella zoster was isolated from the vitreous of a patient with the acute retinal necrosis (ARN) syndrome. We utilized a plaque reduction assay to determine the in vitro susceptibility of the ARN isolate to 6 antiviral drugs. The effective doses for 50% inhibition of plaque numbers were 5.3 uM for acyclovir, 4.7 uM for DHPG, 8.7 uM for Ara-A, 100.7 uM for phosphonoacetic acid, 0.07 uH for BVdU and 2.4 uM for IUdR. Similar inhibitory values were obtained for the OKA vaccine strain of varicella zoster virus. These data do not support the notion that the ARN strain may represent a mutant of varicella zoster virus with significant alterations in either the viral thymidase kinase or DNA polymerase genes based upon its antiviral sensitivities. The implications of these results regarding the role of antiviral chemotherapy in the ARN syndrome are discussed.
A series of clinical isolates of herpes simplex virus type 2 were taken from a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Acyclovir (ACV) susceptibility assays revealed that some isolates were resistant to ACV and cross-resistant to ganciclovir but not to phosphonoacetic acid. The nature of the resistance was examined further. A number of cloned variants were generated, and thymidine kinase and DNA polymerase assays were carried out. Variants that were resistant to ACV were found to be thymidine kinase deficient. Evidence for * alteration in the DNA polymerase was not found when ACV triphosphate or phosphonoacetic acid was used as the inhibitor. In vivo studies with the plaque-purified viruses showed that ACV resistance was associated with a reduced neurovirulence. In a zosteriform model, virus resistant to ACV was unable to induce secondary spread in the same dermatome, to invade the peripheral nervous system or the central nervous system, or to establish latent infections.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) infects many target cells (e.g., endothelial, epithelial, and B cells, keratinocytes, and monocytes) to establish lifelong latent infections. Viral latent-protein expression is critical in inducing and maintaining KSHV latency. Infected cells are programmed to retain the incoming viral genomes during primary infection. Immediately after infection, KSHV transcribes many lytic genes that modulate various cellular pathways to establish successful infection. Analysis of the virion particle showed that the virions contain viral mRNAs, microRNAs, and other noncoding RNAs that are transduced into the target cells during infection, but their biological functions are largely unknown. We performed a comprehensive analysis of the KSHV virion packaged transcripts and the profiles of viral genes transcribed after de novo infections of various cell types (human peripheral blood mononuclear cells [PBMCs], CD14+ monocytes, and telomerase-immortalized vascular endothelial [TIVE] cells), from viral entry until latency establishment. A next-generation sequence analysis of the total transcriptome showed that several viral RNAs (polyadenylated nuclear RNA, open reading frame 58 [ORF58], ORF59, T0.7, and ORF17) were abundantly present in the KSHV virions and effectively transduced into the target cells. Analysis of the transcription profiles of each viral gene showed specific expression patterns in different cell lines, with the majority of the genes, other than latent genes, silencing after 24 h postinfection. We differentiated the actively transcribing genes from the virion-transduced transcripts using a nascent RNA capture approach (Click-iT chemistry), which identified transcription of a number of viral genes during primary infection. Treating the infected cells with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) to block the activity of viral DNA polymerase confirmed the involvement of lytic DNA replication during primary infection. To further understand the role of DNA replication during primary infection, we performed de novo PBMC infections with a recombinant ORF59-deleted KSHV virus, which showed significantly reduced numbers of viral copies in the latently infected cells. In summary, the transduced KSHV RNAs as well as the actively transcribed genes control critical processes of early infection to establish KSHV latency. ::: ::: IMPORTANCE Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is the causative agent of multiple human malignancies in immunocompromised individuals. KSHV establishes a lifelong latency in the infected host, during which only a limited number of viral genes are expressed. However, a fraction of latently infected cells undergo spontaneous reactivation to produce virions that infect the surrounding cells. These newly infected cells are primed early to retain the incoming viral genome and induce cell growth. KSHV transcribes a variety of lytic proteins during de novo infections that modulate various cellular pathways to establish the latent infection. Interestingly, a large number of viral proteins and RNA are encapsidated in the infectious virions and transduced into the infected cells during a de novo infection. This study determined the kinetics of the viral gene expression during de novo KSHV infections and the functional role of the incoming viral transcripts in establishing latency.
Intrinsic and innate immunity play pivotal roles in limiting the replication of invading viral pathogens. Intrinsic immunity is constitutive and mediated by pre-existing host cell restriction factors (e.g., promyelocytic leukemia-nuclear body (PML-NB) constituent proteins) which directly confer antiviral properties. On the other hand, innate immunity is inducible and upregulated in response to infection. Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) (e.g., interferon gamma inducible protein 16 (IFI16)) sense pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and induce downstream signaling cascades leading to the induction of Interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) products that confer antiviral properties. These two arms of immunity represent the first line of intracellular defense to HSV-1 infection. Indeed, rapid recruitment of intrinsic and innate immune factors to viral DNA (vDNA) has a significant bearing on the outcome of infection. However, the spatial and temporal regulation of this recruitment remains poorly defined due to the technical challenges associated with vDNA detection at multiplicities of infection (MOI) that do not saturate intrinsic host factors. Utilizing 5-Ethynyl-2’-deoxyuridine (EdU) labeling of HSV-1 DNA in combination with click chemistry, we directly visualized input viral genomes under low MOI conditions (MOI of ≤ 3 PFU/cell) at 30-90 minutes post-addition of virus (mpi). This protocol is sensitive, specific, and compatible with indirect immunofluorescence (IF) staining protocols, providing a valuable assay to investigate the temporal recruitment of immune regulators to infecting vDNA. ::: ::: Upon entry of vDNA into the nucleus, PML-NB associated restriction factors (e.g., PML, SP100, and Daxx) were rapidly recruited to infecting viral genome foci. This process occurred in a PML-dependent manner and led to genome entrapment and silencing within PML-NBs. Interestingly, genome entrapment was observed during both wild-type (WT) and ICP0-null mutant (ΔICP0) HSV-1 infection. During WT HSV-1 infection, ICP0 induced PML degradation and the dispersal of PML-NB restriction factors, highlighting the importance of ICP0 to release viral genomes entrapped within PML-NBs to stimulate the onset of lytic HSV-1 replication. During ΔICP0 HSV-1 infection, vDNA remained stably entrapped within PML-NBs leading to a repression in viral gene expression and a restriction in plaque formation. Importantly, IFI16 was not stably recruited to vDNA entrapped within PML-NBs, and ISG expression was not induced under low MOI conditions that do not saturate PML-NB intrinsic host defenses. These data demonstrate that vDNA entry into the nucleus alone is not sufficient to stimulate the induction of innate immunity. ::: ::: Saturation of intrinsic host defenses under high MOI conditions stimulated the stable recruitment of IFI16 to infecting viral genomes, and induced ISG expression in a PML-, IFI16-, and Janus-associated kinase (JAK)-dependent manner. The induction of this innate immune response was dependent on the onset of vDNA replication, as treatment of the infected cell monolayers with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a vDNA polymerase inhibitor, inhibited ISG induction in a dose-dependent manner. Unlike PML depletion, inhibition of JAK signaling failed to relieve the plaque formation defect of ΔICP0 HSV-1, but instead significantly enhanced virus yields. ::: ::: Collectively, these data, for the first time, demonstrate a temporal and sequential induction of intrinsic and innate immunity during HSV-1 infection. Intrinsic immunity is induced within minutes of nuclear infection to restrict the initiation of viral gene transcription and the onset of lytic replication. Escape from this intrinsic repression and initiation of vDNA replication, which takes several hours, triggers the induction of innate immunity. ISG products establish an antiviral state within infected and neighboring uninfected cells to constrict viral propagation and limit the spread of infection. We identify dual roles for PML in the regulation of intrinsic and innate immunity to HSV-1 infection. However, these host defenses are counteracted by the viral ubiquitin ligase ICP0, which targets PML for degradation to promote vDNA release from PML-NBs in order to evade intrinsic viral genome silencing from the onset of nuclear infection.
Abstract A general procedure for the preparation of 4-substituted-3-halo-2-quinolones (halo = F, Cl, Br) utilizing 2-halo diethylphosphonoacetic acids (halo = F, Cl, Br) and o -aminophenylketones as the starting materials is described. The title compounds are obtained by an intramolecular Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons olefination of halogen-containing N-acyl- o -aminophenylketones. The transformation process is generally applicable under mild conditions.
Abstract The growth characteristics of human herpesvirus 7 strain SB (HHV-7 (SB)) were studied in human umbilical cord blood lymphocyte (CBL) cultures. The virus has approximately a 4-day growth cycle, as measured by immunofluorescence analysis, quantitation of the relative viral DNA concentration, and examination of infected cells by electron microscopy on consecutive days post-infection. By systematically varying the culture media components, improved culturing conditions were established. Activated lymphocytes were required for virus growth. HHV-7(SB) grew best in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated CBL cultured in media containing 0.01 mg/ml hydrocortisone. Addition of recombinant human interleukin 2 (IL-2) at concentrations exceeding 1–10 U/ml inhibited virus growth in most CBL cultures. Addition of exogenous IL-2 to the culture media had no effect on viral DNA production. However, the percentage of virus antigen-positive cells was highest when 0.1–1 U/ml was added to the media. Differences in the ability of individual CBL cultures to replicate HHV-7(SB) was not explained by differing CD4+ cell concentrations. However, individual cultures varied in the level of endogenous IL-2 production, which may contribute to the virus growth variability in CBL. HHV-7(SB) grew in the CD4-positive T-cell line SupT1, but not in a variety of other lymphocyte, fibroblast, or epithelial cell lines. Nine compounds were tested for antiviral activity against HHV-7 in vitro. Phosphonoformic acid inhibited virus growth with a 50% effective concentration of 4.8 μ M. Ganciclovir (200 μ M) and phosphonoacetic acid (100 μ M) inhibited more than 90% of virus production. None of the compounds were cytotoxic at concentrations which inhibited the virus. A generalized increase in host cell protein synthesis was also observed in virus-infected cells similar to that seen in CBL infected with human herpesvirus 6.
The effect of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) in vitro and in vivo on subacute myeloopticoneuropathy (SMON) virus isolated from the spinal fluid of SMON patients was studied. PAA inhibited multiplication of SMON virus in cultures, but it did not show a direct effect on the virus. The drug did not influence the disease when the medication was started from 10 days after infection of suckling mice. However, the drug did elicit a delay in the incubation period.
An open reading frame mapping antisense to the UL43 gene of herpes simplex virus 1 encodes a protein with an apparent Mr of 38,000. The protein was detected in wild-type-infected cells with rabbit monospecific polyclonal antibody directed against a fusion protein containing all of the sequences encoded by the open reading frame. The antibody did not react with mutants from which the open reading frame was deleted. Expression of this gene, designated UL43.5, was grossly decreased or abolished in infected cells incubated in medium containing inhibitory concentrations of phosphonoacetic acid, suggesting that it is regulated as a gamma gene. UL43.5 is dispensable in cell culture. UL43.5 protein colocalized with the major capsid protein (infected cell protein 5) and the capsid scaffolding proteins (infected cell protein 35) in nuclear structures situated at the periphery of the nucleus. The predicted amino acid sequence indicates that the UL43.5 protein is a highly hydrophilic protein. The colocalization of UL43.5 protein with capsid proteins in discrete nuclear structures suggests that the former may be involved in assembly of viral particles in an accessory role in cells in culture.
Abstract Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons olefination of ring-fluorinated N -trityl-imidazole carboxaldehydes with dialkyphosphonoacetic acid esters produced ring-fluorinated imidazolyl- E - and Z -acrylate esters. Stereochemistry was controlled by choice of phoshonate. Acid catalyzed removal of trityl followed by ester saponification gave the target 2- and 4-fluoro- E - and Z -urocanic acid derivatives. These are being investigated as potential mediators of photo-immunosupression.
We have for some time been interested in the catalytic polymerase and its unusual heterodimeric processivity factor. The polymerase contains proofreading exonuclease activity as well as polymerase activity (3,4). Forward genetic studies have identified alleles encoding enzymes with altered fidelity (9) as well those with resistance or hypersensitivity to inhibitors such as aphidicolin, cytosine arabinoside, phosphonoacetic acid, and cidofivir (9) (10) (11) (35) (36) (37) . The enzyme is intrinsically distributive, adding ~10 nt per template binding event in the presence of moderate concentrations of NaCl or MgCl ++ (5). A processive form of the enzyme exists within infected cells, however, and we have previously identified the A20 protein and the virally encoded UDG protein, which is traditionally a DNA repair enzyme, as the two components necessary for processivity (13, 15 ). A20 appears to bind directly to Pol, as well as to other components of the replication machinery such as the D5 NTPase/primase, and the abundant H5 phosphoprotein (38) . The N'-terminal 25 residues of A20 have been shown to be necessary and sufficient for interaction with UDG (39). A20 and UDG interact tightly in vivo and in vitro, and we assume that A20 serves to bridge Pol and UDG, and that the intrinsic DNA scanning activity of UDG prolongs the association of Pol with the template and renders it processive. This type of processivity factor would be quite distinct from the toroidal sliding clamps associated with prokaryotic [E. coli β complex;(40,41) Bernard Moss (NIH, Bethesda, MD). The recombinant vaccinia viruses enabling T7-mediated overexpression of E9 (Pol), A20, 3XFLAG-UDG or 3XFLAG-UDG (6,13,15) have been previously described. Viral stocks were prepared from cytoplasmic lysates of infected cells by ultracentrifugation through 36% sucrose; titers were determined on BSC40 cells. For virological studies using Dts48, 31.5°C and 39.7°C were used as the permissive and nonpermissive temperatures, respectively.
BDLF4 expression in B95-8 cells with early kinetics. We first prepared antiserum against EBV BDLF4 by immunizing rabbits with a glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fused BDLF4 protein expressed in bacteria. This anti-BDLF4 antiserum reacted with a protein of about ϳ22 kDa in the lysate from B95-8 cells, treated with tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA), A23187, and sodium butyrate (T/A/B) for 48 h (Fig. 1A) . The BDLF4 protein could be detected readily by 24 h, and expression was increased at 48 h (Fig. 1B) . While BALF4 mRNA expression was clearly blocked by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), the amount of BDLF4 was decreased only slightly by the inhibitor (Fig. 1C) , suggesting that the BDLF4 gene is expressed with E kinetics.
Abstract In an earlier study, we established long-term bulk (uncloned) human, T-cell (BTC) cultures which displayed EBV-specific and HLA-restricted lytic activities. The present study demonstrates the feasibility of isolating and propagating clones of CTLs which express EBV specificity and HLA restriction. A total of 7 independent cloned cultures derived from 2 of the initially established BTC cultures were found to exert reproducible, preferential lytic activity towards EBV-infected autologous or HLA-A/B-matched allogenic B blasts. The conclusion that the cloned effectors were indeed exerting EBV-specific and HLA-restricted lysis was supported by the results of cold-target inhibition experiments. In addition, it was found that a monoclonal anti-HLA antibody (W3/62) could effectively block the observed lytic effect. Data have been presented suggesting that very early after exposure of B blasts to high multiplicity of EBV, the putative virus-specific component(s) involved in the CTL recognition event is derived directly from the envelope of input EBV, i.e. «from without» . Such susceptible EBV-infected blasts could be converted to the insusceptible state following brief exposure to papain, which presumably removes membrane-integrated EBV-envelope material from infected cell surfaces. Using this approach, the time required for cell-surface expression of newly synthesized EBV component(s), conferring susceptibility to virus-specific CTLs, was investigated. The results indicate that EBV-infected and papain-treated B blasts acquire optimal susceptibility to the lytic effect of effector T cells 3-4 days following infection. This conversion of infected blasts from the insusceptible to the susceptible state was blocked by the protein-synthesis inhibitor pactamycin only when added immediately and not at 6 h after papain treatment. On the other hand, papain-treated infected blasts incubated in presence of phosphonoacetic acid, a known inhibitor of EBV-DNA synthesis, were lysable by the effectors. Taken together, the results imply that EBV-specific envelope protein(s) inserted in targetcell surfaces either «from without» or de novo synthesized (from within) presumably represent the putative target(s) for virus-specific CTLs in the context of HLA-A/B antigen(s).
Abstract We have begun to identify immediate-early (IE), early (E), and late (L) genes of BHV-4 by analysis of cytoplasmic polyadenylated RNA transcribed from the BHV-4 genome over the course of infection and in the presence of cycloheximide or phosphonoacetic acid. Labeled cDNA prepared from RNA isolated at different times was hybridized with Southern blots of viral DNA to show which regions of the genome are transcribed at different times. In a second series of experiments, radiolabeled cloned restriction fragments representing the entire BHV-4 genome were hybridized separately to RNA on Northern blots to determine the number and sizes of transcripts at different times. As expected, with increasing time after infection, more portions of the BHV-4 genome are transcribed and a larger number and a greater abundance of viral transcripts are present. RNA transcribed from terminal repeats was not detectable at any time. However, similarity in size of RNA transcribed from opposite ends of the unique region of the genome late in infection suggests that RNA is transcribed over the fused ends of the genome, and terminal repeats are removed during RNA processing. Identification of IE, E, and L transcripts by this analysis lays the foundation for further study of specific BHV-4 transcripts and genes.
An alternative preparation of a 2-iminovinamidinium salt from phosphonoacetic acids is described along with its application to the synthesis of 5-formylpyrimidines and masked 4-formylpyrazoles.
In early recurrent herpetic lesions, CD4 T lymphocytes are the predominant infiltrating cells, and keratinocytes expressing major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens, induced byinterferon-y (lFN-1'), are the major siteof herpes simplexvirus (HSV)replication.IFN-1'pretreat­ ment of human keratinocytes in vitro reduced MHC class I antigen down-regulation by HSV-1 infection and induced expression of HLA-DR that was unaltered by subsequent HSV-1 infection. Incubation of these infected keratinocytes with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) almost completely inhibited expression of four major HSV glycoproteins, although expression of early proteins was not affected.Weak CD8 T lymphocytecytotoxicity against IFN-1'-stimulated, HLA-DR-expressing HSV-1-infected keratinocytes was consistently directed to the immediate early/early proteins (all 9 patients tested) but against late proteins to a lesser degree (4/9 patients). However, CD4 T lymphocyte cytotoxicity was much greater and directed predominantlyagainst late HSV-1 glycopro­ teins (all 9 subjects tested) in these cells. While neutralizing antibody is important in restricting the effects ofviremia following primary infection with herpes sim­ plex virus (HSV) types 1 and 2, T lymphocytes, their secreted cytokines, and macrophages appear to be more important in restricting the extent and perhaps the frequency of recurrent herpetic lesions [1-3] after reactivation of HSV-lor -2 infec­ tion in the dorsal root ganglia. Activation of various T lympho­ cyte functions, including cytotoxicity and cytokine production [4-8], appears to correlate with a reduction in the frequency of recurrent herpes [5, 6]. The predominant cells detected by immunohistochemistry in the early phase of human recurrent herpetic lesions were CD4 T lymphocytes and monocytes/macrophages with a later influx of CD8 T lymphocytes. Epidermal cells developed major histo­ compatibility complex (MHC) class II antigen expression, probably induced by interferon-y (IFN-y) produced by CD4 T cells within the lesions [9,10]. Potential functions of HSV­ I-infected, MHC class II-expressing epidermal cells in rela­ tion to infiltrating CD4 T cells included accessory HSV-l anti
Summary ::: Aphidicolin, a tetracyclic diterpenoid which inhibits the DNA polymerase-α activities of many eukaryotic cells, inhibited herpes simplex virus growth and DNA synthesis in infected cultures and the activity of the virus DNA polymerase in vitro. A wide range of stable aphidicolin sensitivities was represented amongst a collection of virus strains with no prior exposure to this drug, but viruses with polymerase mutations selected for resistance to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or to acycloguanosine typically showed increased sensitivity to aphidicolin. Of 16 unrelated PAA-resistant variants, 7 were hypersensitive to aphidicolin. A number of mutants with temperature-sensitive (ts) lesions in the polymerase gene also showed increased aphidicolin sensitivity (e.g. HSV-1[mP17]tsH) or aphidicolin hypersensitivity (e.g. HSV-1[KOS]tsD9, tsC4). Resistance or hypersensitivity of virus growth and DNA synthesis in vivo were correlated with resistance or hypersensitivity of virus DNA polymerase reactions in vitro. Resistance phenotypes were closely linked to the polymerase gene during recombination with outside markers. Moreover, the selection of aphidicolin-resistant mutants from hypersensitive variants with independent PAA resistance or ts mutations in the polymerase gene could result in co-selection for PAA-sensitive and ts ::: + phenotypes. Confirmation that multiple independent mutations could determine aphidicolin hypersensitivity was obtained by studies of recombination between independent hypersensitive variants. Aphidicolin-resistant recombinant progeny were formed with recombination frequencies (0.4 to 2.6%) compatible with intragenic events. With parental hypersensitive variants which were products of limited PAA selection, or with the ts polymerase mutations, aphidicolin-resistant recombinants were PAA-sensitive and/or ts ::: +. The segregation of other markers (ts, plaque morphology) amongst recombinant progeny permitted the orientation of multiple determinants of PAA resistance and aphidicolin hypersensitivity with respect to other markers in the polymerase gene and in other genes. The nature of residues determined at any one of a constellation of separate sites within the polymerase locus can determine resistance or sensitivity to antiviral drugs and aphidicolin hypersensitivity associated with changes at the polymerase locus facilitates high resolution genetic analysis of this locus.
Abstract The Mannich reaction of diethyl phosphonoacetic acid (4) provides a short and efficient approach to vinylphosphonates 6.
Northern blot analysis of R15 and ORF74 transcripts. Figure 1A depicts the region of the RRV genome encoding R15 and ORF74. To examine expression of RRV R15 and ORF74, primary rhesus fibroblasts were infected with RRV strain 17577 (multiplicity of infection of 5) (12) in the presence of cycloheximide (CHX; Sigma, St. Louis, Mo.) to inhibit protein synthesis or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA; Sigma) to inhibit DNA replication or were left untreated to detect immediateearly, early, or late viral transcripts, respectively. The time points for collection of RNA were 24 (CHX), 48 (PAA), and 72 (untreated) h. Northern blot analysis with double-strand ORF74 and R15 probes demonstrated that transcripts are detected only in 72-h-untreated cultures, indicating that these ORFs are transcribed as late-lytic genes, and that similar-size transcripts are detected, suggesting that R15 and ORF74 are bicistronic (Fig. 1B and C ). An antisense oligonucleotide probe specific for R15 further confirms the specificity of both transcripts for R15 (Fig. 1D) .
From this background, several research groups have studied the electrochemical behavior during aluminum anodizing in various unknown electrolyte solutions. [22] [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] [31] [32] [33] [34] [35] In addition, the mixture of the electrolyte solutions has also been investigated to control the anodizing voltage and corresponding cell diameter. [36] [37] [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] Very recently, we reported novel self-ordering electrolytes (selenic acid (H 2 SeO 4 ), etidronic acid (CH 3 C(OH)[PO(OH) 2 ] 2 , and phosphonoacetic acid (HO) 2 P(O)CH 2 COOH) for the fabrication of porous alumina with a different periodicity. [43] [44] [45] [46] [47] These electrolytes exhibit a novel periodicity measuring 95-112 nm at 42-48 V, 530-670 nm at 210-270 V, 500-550 nm at 205-225 V, respectively. Typically, the regularity of the porous alumina formed by anodizing is strongly affected by various operating factors, including electrochemical conditions and the micro-/nanostructure of the starting aluminum substrate. 23 However, the details of the self-ordering behavior of the porous alumina formed via anodizing in these novel electrolyte solutions have not yet been reported. z E-mail: kiku@eng.hokudai.ac.jp
The synthesis of monoesters (P and C) of phosphonoacetic acid (PA) is given. The carboxyl esters were prepared by two methods: the reaction of chloroacetates with tris(trimethylsilyl) phosphite, followed by hydrolysis; and by the acid-catalyzed esterification of PA with the appropriate alcohol. P-Monoesters of PA were prepared either by the reaction of alkyl[bis(trimethylsilyl)] phosphite with benzyl chloroacetate followed by deprotection or by the reaction of dimethylphenyl phosphite with benzyl bromoacetate followed by hydrogenolysis. Three aryl- (alkyl-)phosphinic acid derivatives are reported. The above compounds were evaluated for anti-herpes activity against HSV-induced DNA polymerase and in animals infected with herpes dermatitis.
Fosfazinomycin A is a phosphonate natural product in which the C-terminal carboxylate of a Val-Arg dipeptide is connected to methyl 2-hydroxy-2-phosphono-acetate (Me-HPnA) via a unique hydrazide linkage. We report here that Me-HPnA is generated from phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA) in three biosynthetic steps through the combined action of an O-methyltransferase (FzmB) and an α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) dependent non-heme iron dioxygenase (FzmG). Unexpectedly, the latter enzyme is involved in two different steps, oxidation of the PnAA to phosphonoacetic acid as well as hydroxylation of methyl 2-phosphonoacetate. The N-methyltransferase (FzmH) was able to methylate Arg-NHNH2 (3) to give Arg-NHNHMe (4), constituting the second segment of the fosfazinomycin molecule. Methylation of other putative intermediates such as desmethyl fosfazinomycin B was not observed. Collectively, our current data support a convergent biosynthetic pathway to fosfazinomycin.
Selective DNA extraction and hybridization procedures were used to estimate the relative number of covalently closed circular viral genomes in cultures of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed cells. In virus-producing P3HR-1 cultures that were exposed for 11 days to phosphonoacetic acid or to acyclovir, the content of covalently closed circular EBV DNA was reduced ca. 70% relative to a control culture without drug. The EBV plasmid content of Raji, a virus nonproducer cell line, was not reduced by exposure to these compounds. When P3HR-1 cultures were exposed to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, the number of circular genomes per cell increased. These findings indicate that two enzyme activities synthesize circular EBV DNA and that the virus-associated DNA polymerase synthesizes most of the circular EBV DNA in a virus producer culture. It is suggested that the circular genomes synthesized by the viral enzyme are intermediates in the syntheses of linear virus DNA.
Hydrothermal reactions of lanthanide chloride, phosphonoacetic acid (H2O3PCH2COOH), and water in the presence of HCl provide a series of lanthanide coordination polymers. FT-IR spectra confirm that there are three kinds of structures among seven complexes, {[Ln2(O3PCH2CO2)2(H2O)3] · H2O}∞ (type I) (Ln = LaIII for 1; PrIII for 2; NdIII for 3 and EuIII for 4), [Ln(O3PCH2CO2)(H2O)2]∞ (type II) (Ln = TbIII for 5), and [Ln(O3PCH2CO2)(H2O)2]∞ (type III) (Ln = HoIII for 6 and YbIII for 7). Complexes 1–5 show 2-D 4,4,5,5-connected (44 · 62)(45 · 6)(46 · 64)(48 · 62) topology networks and 2-D 4-connected (44 · 62) topology networks and then are further linked into 3-D supramolecular networks by hydrogen-bonding interactions; 6 and 7 both exhibit a 3-D 4-connected (42 · 63 · 8) topology with 1-D dumbbell-shaped channels. The results indicate infrared spectroscopy is in accord with the result of single-crystal X-ray analysis.
SummaryBoth the laboratory adapted Auburn strain and a recently isolated wild-type strain of channel catfish herpesvirus (CCV) were found to be inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) when replicated in catfish cell cultures. The inhibition of virus cytopathic effect by PAA exhibited a direct relationship between the multiplicity of infection and amount of drug required. However, in this poikilothermic system up to 20 times the amount of PAA required for inhibition of homeothermic herpesvirus systems was found necessary to inhibit CCV cytopathology.
The presence of 2 agents such as a Cox A9 strain and another mild cytopathogenic effect-producing strain, both isolated from patients presenting with epidemic neuropathy is reported in this paper. A mild cutopathogenic effect which was propagated in successive dilutions was developed in the dilution 10(-4) by means of the neutralization test of a Coxsackie A9 virus with its homologous hyperimmune serum. A gradient in saccharose was performed in a mild cytopathogenic effect-producing strain and a typical cytopathogenic effect of an Enterovirus developed from one of the fractions passed in tissular cultures in the presence phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). The possible pathogenic role of these viruses are discussed.
Natural products have gained renewed interests with the realization that the genetic capacity of microorganisms to produce these molecules is much larger than anticipated. Indeed, genome mining exercises have resulted in the discovery of a variety of new compounds.[1] Whereas the sequenced bacterial and fungal genomes demonstrate the untapped potential of natural products, connecting the biosynthetic genes in genomes to novel compounds is still a challenge. One aspect of this challenge is the difficulty of purifying these molecules from complex spent media. Recently, chemoselective derivatization approaches have been developed to aid in the purification process.[2] Here we illustrate the use of an enzymatic approach to rapidly enrich a phosphonate from the spent medium of Streptomyces sp. WM6372, a strain previously shown to encode an uncharacterized phosphonate biosynthetic gene cluster. Isolation and structure elucidation identified the molecule as methyl 1-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (Me-HPnA). Realization that Me-HPnA is present in fosfazinomycin prompted a targeted search after growth of the strain in various media. We also examined Streptomyces XY332, which was previously shown to encode the same phosphonate biosynthetic genes. Both strains produced fosfazinomycin, and heterologous expression of the genes in S. lividans led to production of related phosphonic acids, providing strong support for linking the gene cluster to fosfazinomycin production. Analysis of the genes provides insights into the biosynthetic pathway of hydrazine formation in nature.
Abstract A novel and efficient synthetic route to the anti-cancer natural product yomogin has been developed using a Telescoped Intramolecular Michael-Olefination (TIMO) sequence as the key step. Two variants of the TIMO sequence have been used successfully: a two-step acylation approach using diethyl phosphonoacetic acid and a base-free variant using triphenylphosphoranylideneketene (Bestmann’s ylide). The natural product, 3-oxodiplophyllin, was also prepared en route to yomogin.
An aphidicolin-resistant (Aphr) mutant of herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 2 strain 186 previously has been shown to induce an altered viral DNA polymerase that is more resistant to aphidicolin and more sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) than is wild-type DNA polymerase. In this study the mutation responsible for the aphidicolin-resistant phenotype was physically mapped by marker transfer experiments. The physical map limits for the Aphr mutation were contained in a 1.1-kilobase pair region within the HSV DNA polymerase locus. The 1.1-kilobase-pair fragment of the Aphr mutant also conferred hypersensitivity to PAA, and DNA sequence analysis revealed an AT to GC transition within this fragment of the Aphr mutant. Analysis of the three potential open reading frames within the 1,147-base-pair fragment and comparison with the amino acid sequence of DNA polymerase of HSV type 1 indicated that the Aphr mutant polymerase had an amino acid substitution from a tyrosine to a histidine in the well-conserved region of the DNA polymerase. These results indicate that this single amino acid change can confer altered sensitivity to aphidicolin and PAA and suggest that this region may form a domain that contains the binding sites for substrates, PPi, and aphidicolin.
Fosfazinomycin A is a phosphonate natural product in which the C-terminal carboxylate of a Val-Arg dipeptide is connected to methyl 2-hydroxy-2-phosphono-acetate (Me-HPnA) via a unique hydrazide linkage. We report here that Me-HPnA is generated from phosphonoacetaldehyde (PnAA) in three biosynthetic steps through the combined action of an O-methyltransferase (FzmB) and an a-ketoglutarate (a-KG) dependent non-heme iron dioxygenase (FzmG). Unexpectedly, the latter enzyme is involved in two different steps, oxidation of the PnAA to phosphonoacetic acid as well as hydroxylation of methyl 2-phosphonoacetate. The N-methyltransferase (FzmH) was able to methylate Arg-NHNH 2 (3) to give Arg-NHNHMe (4), constituting the second segment of the fosfazinomycin molecule. Methylation of other putative intermediates such as desmethyl fosfazinomycin B was not observed. Collectively, our current data support a convergent biosynthetic pathway to fosfazinomycin.
An understanding of the molecular actions of PP-InsPs by their addition to cell-free systems can be confounded by the enzymatic and chemical instability of the diphosphate (PP) component. Therefore, we and other workers have developed more stable, synthetic versions of PP-InsPs in which the PP groups are replaced with phosphonoacetate (PA) 3, 4 or methylenebisphosphonate (PCP) [4] [5] [6] [7] groups (Fig. 1) . 8 Thus, a tethered version of 5-PCP-InsP 5 was recently used to search for novel binding proteins for PP-InsPs. 9 Metabolically-stable PP-InsP analogues can also be informative for structural analysis of enzyme/substrate crystal complexes. For example, we have used 5-PA-InsP 5 to reveal a previously unidentified ligand capture site on PPIP5K2. 10 While PA analogues are relatively easy to synthesise, the carboxylic ester of the PA group could be prone to chemical hydrolysis at high pH and/or enzymatic cleavage by cellular esterases. 11 In both PA and PCP analogues, the bridging oxy-analogue for protein binding sites. 12 A well-established approach to this problem, originally developed by Blackburn and co-workers, 13 involves replacing the phosphonate CH 2 group with difluoromethylene (CF 2 ). The more electronegative CF 2 group increases the acidity of the phosphonic acid and, in addition, the CF 2 group itself has greater electronic and steric similarity to the bridging oxygen atom of a phosphate than does CH 2 . 14 The difluoromethylenephosphonate (PCF 2 ) group has been particularly useful as a phosphate mimic in the development of protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors. 15, 16 In nucleotide chemistry, the difluoromethylenebisphosphonate (PCF 2 P) motif has been used to mimic PP in stable analogues of nucleoside diphosphates and triphosphates. 17 Although the PCF 2 P group has been proposed as a potential PP mimic in stabilised analogues of PP-InsPs, this was anticipated to present a considerable synthetic challenge, 5, 18 and while several PCP-InsPs have been synthesised, [4] [5] [6] [7] no fluorinated equivalents have yet been disclosed. In the current report, we explore an alternative approach to a fluorinated isopolar analogue of a PP-InsP, building on our earlier work with phosphonoacetic acid (PA) esters. Although replacing the CH 2 group in the β-ketophosphonate fragment of a PA ester with CF 2 is possible, the resulting difluoroacetate ester would be very labile to hydrolysis. Therefore, we chose to replace the ester of PA with a stable amide linkage, allowing the inclusion of the electron-withdrawing CF 2 group in place of CH 2 . In the resulting analogue, 5-PCF 2 Am-InsP 5 (1, Fig. 1) , the terminal phosphonate group should more closely resemble the corresponding β-phosphate group of 5-PP-InsP 5 in its electronic properties than in either the PA or the PCP equivalents. The α-phosphono-α,α-difluoroacetamide (PCF 2 Am) unit lacks a close equivalent to the α-phosphate of PP, but the amide carbonyl retains the potential to accept H-bonds and the rigidity of the amide structure itself may confer advantages at some binding sites. To the best of our knowledge, the PCF 2 Am motif 19 has not previously been explored as a diphosphate isostere, although it has been used successfully in analogues of 1,3-bisphosphoglyceric acid as inhibitors of phosphoglycerate kinase 20 and in the design of inhibitors of aspartate carbamoyltransferase 21 and protein tyrosine phosphatases. 16 
An aphidicolin-resistant (Aphr) mutant of herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 2 strain 186 previously has been shown to induce an altered viral DNA polymerase that is more resistant to aphidicolin and more sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) than is wild-type DNA polymerase. In this study the mutation responsible for the aphidicolin-resistant phenotype was physically mapped by marker transfer experiments. The physical map limits for the Aphr mutation were contained in a 1.1-kilobase pair region within the HSV DNA polymerase locus. The 1.1-kilobase-pair fragment of the Aphr mutant also conferred hypersensitivity to PAA, and DNA sequence analysis revealed an AT to GC transition within this fragment of the Aphr mutant. Analysis of the three potential open reading frames within the 1,147-base-pair fragment and comparison with the amino acid sequence of DNA polymerase of HSV type 1 indicated that the Aphr mutant polymerase had an amino acid substitution from a tyrosine to a histidine in the well-conserved region of the DNA polymerase. These results indicate that this single amino acid change can confer altered sensitivity to aphidicolin and PAA and suggest that this region may form a domain that contains the binding sites for substrates, PP1, and aphidicolin.
When human embryonic fibroblast cells were infected with cell-free varicella-zoster virus, virus replication began between 8 and 14 h postinfection, and 4 more h werp required for the virus to infect neighboring cells. Virus-specific antigens were traced by the anticomplement immunofluorescent antibody technique. Virus antigen was first detectable 2 h postinfection in the cytoplasma, and diffuse fluorescence was observed in the nucleus as early as 4 h after infection. The nuclear fluorescence got brighter and cytoplasmic fluorescence was observed at 14 h postinfection. The spread of virus to the neighboring cells was recognized in 18 h postinfection. In the period of 24 to 48 h, antigens were seen at the nuclear membrane region and in the cytoplasma. Very strong fluorescence was restricted mainly to the nucleus, when phosphonoacetic acid or cytosine arabinoside was added to the infected cultures and the cells were incubated for 48 h.
BACKGROUND ::: Patients treated with lithium salts for manic depression had a lower incidence of herpes simplex infections. Initial studies in our laboratory demonstrated that addition of LiCl in cultures of human endothelial cells infected with herpes simplex virus suppressed viral replication and allowed synthesis of host proteins. ::: ::: ::: EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN ::: Based on the above observations, we decided to study the optimal condition for the lithium effect and determine the process of inhibition of viral replication. Endothelial cell cultures infected with herpes simplex virus-1 were exposed to LiCl at various times postinfection. The levels of host and viral mRNAs were measured by Northern and slot blot hybridization. The pattern of protein synthesis was analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblot and replication was assessed by plaque assay. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: LiCl inhibited virus replication in a dose- and time-dependent manner as was reflected in the sharp decrease or absence of infectious virus production. The condition for optimal effects of LiCl were the addition of the salt between 0-3 hours postinfection, and at a concentration of 30 mM. LiCl suppressed the synthesis of viral polypeptides, whereas the synthesis of host proteins was maintained. Similar results were observed with phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase. NaCl, at the same concentration as LiCl, did not prevent the virus-induced inhibition of host cell protein synthesis. The level of host mRNA for fibronectin, thrombospondin, collagen type IV, actin, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 were maintained in the presence of LiCl. mRNAs for viral proteins, ICP-4 and DNA polymerase were nearly undetectable when LiCl was added with the virus (0 time postinfection). ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: The data indicate that LiCl treatment results in suppression of herpes virus mRNAs, i.e., mRNAs for ICP-4 and DNA polymerase, thereby inhibiting replication. On the other hand, the levels of host mRNAs are maintained to varying degrees depending on the message. The data suggest that a very early step in the process of viral replication is affected by LiCl, since the drug is maximally effective when added with the virus.
Phosphonoacetic acid(PAA)isasimple compoundthatisnotanantimetabolite yethas beenshowntoinhibit herpes simplex virus (HSV)bothinvitro andinvivo. A studyby Shipkowitz etal.(10) in1973first showed that PPA suppressed HSV intissue cultures, in herpetic dermatitis inmice,andinherpetic keratitis inrabbits. Recently, Gerstein etal. (3)showedthattopical PAA wasabletosuppress clinical disease andvirus replication in established herpetic keratitis inrabbits andwas equivalent toidoxuridine (IDU) ointment. PAA appears toachieve itsantiviral effect byinhibiting viral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)synthesis (8). Preliminary results haveindicated thatPAAspecifically inhibits theviral DNAdependent DNA polymerase (7)anddoesnot inhibit normalcellular DNA polymerases. Since PAA isnotanantimetabolite andhas nosignificant effect onhostribonucleic acidor DNA synthesis, wedesigned a series ofexperiments tocompare PAAagainst other antiviral agents andtotest itseffect against deeper ocular herpetic infections andIDU-resistant keratitis inrabbits.
The murine gammaherpesvirus-68 genome encodes 73 protein-coding open reading frames with extensive similarities to human gamma(2) herpesviruses, as well as unique genes and cellular homologues. We performed transcriptome analysis of stage-specific viral RNA during permissive infection using an oligonucleotide-based microarray. Using this approach, M4, K3, ORF38, ORF50, ORF57 and ORF73 were designated as immediate-early genes based on cycloheximide treatment. The microarray analysis also identified 10 transcripts with early expression kinetics, 32 transcripts with early-late expression kinetics and 29 transcripts with late expression kinetics. The latter group consisted mainly of structural proteins, and showed high expression levels relative to other viral transcripts. Moreover, we detected all eight tRNA-like transcripts in the presence of cycloheximide and phosphonoacetic acid. Lytic infection with MHV-68 also resulted in a significant reduction in the expression of cellular transcripts included in the DNA chip. This global approach to viral transcript analysis offers a powerful system for examining molecular transitions between lytic and latent virus infections associated with disease pathogenesis.
Summary ::: The properties of latent herpesvirus of turkey (HVT) and Marek's disease virus (MDV) genomes have been studied in virus-non-producer MDCC-BO1(T) cells, a T-lymphoblastoid cell line derived from spleen cells of an HVT-vaccinated chicken. The numbers of the two virus genomes in BO1(T) cells remained stable at 1.6 to 1.8 HVT genome equivalents/cell and 3.4 to 3.8 MDV genome equivalents/cell throughout a number of passages and were not decreased by the presence of phosphonoacetic acid in the culture. When the culture temperature of the MDV-producer MDCC-MSB1 cell line was shifted from 41 to 37 °C, the cells cultured at 37 °C contained about five times as many virus genomes as those cultured at 41 °C. In contrast, the numbers of the two virus genomes in BO1(T) cells were not increased by culture at 37 °C. RNA extracted from BO1(T) whole cells and from the polyribosomal fraction hybridized to both MDV and HVT DNAs, indicating the expression of both latent virus genomes. Digestion of cell nuclei with micrococcal nuclease revealed that both latent HVT and MDV genomes possess a nucleosomal structure. Closed circular MDV DNA was demonstrated in BO1(T) by isopycnic centrifugation of DNA in ethidium bromide—CsCl gradients
The murine gammaherpesvirus-68 genome encodes 73 protein-coding open reading frames with extensive similarities to human c 2 herpesviruses, as well as unique genes and cellular homologues. We performed transcriptome analysis of stage-specific viral RNA during permissive infection using an oligonucleotide-based microarray. Using this approach, M4, K3, ORF38, ORF50, ORF57 and ORF73 were designated as immediate-early genes based on cycloheximide treatment. The microarray analysis also identified 10 transcripts with early expression kinetics, 32 transcripts with early-late expression kinetics and 29 transcripts with late expression kinetics. The latter group consisted mainly of structural proteins, and showed high expression levels relative to other viral transcripts. Moreover, we detected all eight tRNA-like transcripts in the presence of cycloheximide and phosphonoacetic acid. Lytic infection with MHV-68 also resulted in a significant reduction in the expression of cellular transcripts included in the DNA chip. This global approach to viral transcript analysis offers a powerful system for examining molecular transitions between lytic and latent virus infections associated with disease pathogenesis.
The properties of latent herpesvirus of turkey (HVT) and Marek's disease virus (MDV) genomes have been studied in virus-non-producer MDCC-BOI(T) cells, a T-lymphoblastoid cell line derived from spleen cells of an HVT-vaccinated chicken. The numbers of the two virus genomes in BO 1 (T) cells remained stable at 1.6 to 1.8 HVT genome equivalents/cell and 3.4 to 3.8 MDV genome equivalents/cell throughout a number of passages and were not decreased by the presence of phosphonoacetic acid in the culture. When the culture temperature of the MDV-producer MDCC-MSB1 cell line was shifted from 41 to 37 °C, the cells cultured at 37 °C contained about five times as many virus genomes as those cultured at 41 °C. In contrast, the numbers of the two virus genomes in BOI(T) cells were not increased by culture at 37 °C. RNA extracted from BOI(T) whole cells and from the polyribosomal fraction hybridized to both MDV and HVT DNAs, indicating the expression of both latent virus genomes. Digestion of cell nuclei with micrococcal nuclease revealed that both latent HVT and MDV genomes possess a nucleosomal structure. Closed circular MDV DNA was demonstrated in BO 1 (T)by isopycnic centrifugation of DNA in ethidium bromide-CsCl gradients INTRODUCTION
The unique short (Us) segment of the genome of equine herpesvirus type 1 (EHV-1) strain KyA is comprised of six open reading frames (ORFs) that encode: a) a homolog of the Us2 protein of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1); b) a serine threonine protein kinase that is a homolog of the HSV-1 Us3 protein; c) a homolog of pseudorabies virus glycoprotein gX and HSV-2 gG; d) a novel glycoprotein, EUS4, not encoded by other herpesviruses sequenced to date; e) a homolog of HSV-1 gD; and f) a homolog of HSV-1 Us9. The KyA strain is a deletion mutant that lacks Us sequences encoding gI, gE, and a potential 10 kD polypeptide, and thus may be useful as a parent virus for the generation of live virus vaccines. To complete the elucidation of the transcriptional program of the Us segment, Northern blot hybridization and S1 nuclease analyses were performed on poly(A)(+)-selected RNA isolated from infected cells maintained under early (phosphonoacetic acid-block) and late conditions. The findings revealed that the gene (EUS2 ORF) encoding the protein kinase is expressed as an early 2.9 kb transcript that overlaps and is 3' coterminal with a 1.6 kb early transcript that encodes the gG/gX homolog (EUS3 ORF). Two transcripts of 1.6 kb and 5.8 kb are 5' coterminal and may both encode the novel glycoprotein gene EUS4. The 1.6 kb transcript terminates at a poly(A) signal site downstream of the EUS4 ORF, and the 5.8 kb transcript terminates within the inverted repeat (IR) segment. Overall, the transcriptional program of the EHV-1 KyA Us segment is complex and exhibits similarities to that of HSV-1 Us segment: a) transcripts arise from both DNA strands; b) some transcripts, including those mapping at the termini of the Us segment, extend into the IR segments and are 3' coterminal with the 1.2 kb IR6 transcript; c) at least one transcript reads through a functional polyadenylation signal; d) some transcripts encoding genes that lie in different reading frames exist as a family of overlapping mRNAs, some in an anti-sense manner. Lastly, of the six Us genes of the EHV-1 KyA strain, only those encoding the EHV-1 protein kinase and the HSV-2 gG/gX homolog are members of the early kinetic class.
Publisher Summary This chapter discusses the methods used to isolate and to analyze drug resistant mutants that identify important amino acid residues in polymerases. It then discusses methods used to investigate subunit interactions in polymerases. Although some of the methods employed are peculiar to the HSV system, the approaches could be generally applicable to any polymerase. Catalytic subunits of DNA polymerases recognize substrates and interact with proteins, particularly other polymerase subunits. The DNA polymerase encoded by herpes simplex virus (HSV) belongs to the α-like class of DNA polymerases (also known as class B), which includes the eukaryotic replicative polymerases. The underlying rationale for using drug resistance to probe the active sites of DNA polymerase is summarized. In the case of herpes viruses, the drugs used have included nucleoside analogs such as acyclovir (ACV), ganciclovir, and vidarabine (araA), which are converted to triphosphates and inhibit competitively with dNTPs; pyrophosphate (PPi) analogs such as phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and foscarnet (phosphonoformic acid, PFA); and the tetracyclic diterpenoid, aphidicolin, which inhibit competitively with dNTPs.
Recent field studies suggest that dissolved MnIII should be ubiquitous at oxic/anoxic interfaces in all natural waters and may play important roles in biogeochemical redox processes. Here, we uncovered environmentally relevant synthetic phosphonate-based chelators that solubilize (hydr)oxide-bound MnIII via ligand-promoted dissolution at circum-neutral pHs and that their ability to release aqueous MnIII can be predicted based on the chemical structure. For two (hydr)oxides (manganite and birnessite) reacting with excess concentrations of pyrophosphoric acid (PP), methylenediphosphonic acid (MDP), and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), ligand-promoted dissolution is predominant from pH 6--8, initial dissolution rates and plateau concentrations for dissolved MnIII decrease in the order PP > MDP > PAA, and at pH 5, MDP reacts equally well (with birnessite) or more efficiently (with manganite) than PP, and PAA remains the least reactive chelator. For manganite reacting with an excess concentration of aminophosphonate/carboxylate-based chelators, the aminophosphonate-containing iminodimethylenephosphonic acid and glyphosate yield appreciable amounts of dissolved MnIII, but the aminocarboxylate-based methyliminodiacetic acid yields solely dissolved MnII via MnIII reduction.
The DNA sequence of the BamHI fragments B and the contiguous portion of G extending from the BamHI site to the EcoRI site of the B95-8 strain of Epstein-Barr virus has been determined. The sequence has been analysed for possible protein coding regions and transcriptional control sites. At least eight large open reading frames were found. Several RNA polymerase II promoters have been identified in the BamHI-B fragments. RNAs transcribed from these promoters are substantially induced by treatment of B95-8 cells with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate. Phosphonoacetic acid reversed the stimulatory effect of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate on the transcription of these RNAs indicating that they are late RNAs.
Summary The bacterium Enterobacter aerogenes could grow on a medium containing alkylphosphonic acid as a phosphorus source. The extracts prepared from the cells grown on phosphonoacetic acid as a sole source of phosphorus showed an activity of carbon-phosphorus lyase and hydrolyzed methylphosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid and phenylphosphonic acid with a liberation of inorganic phosphates.
Rare earth elements (REE) are elements that drive the development of new technologies in many sectors, including green energy. However, the supply chain of REE is subject to a complex set of technical, environmental, and geopolitical constraints. Some of these challenges may be circumvented if REE are recovered from naturally abundant alternative sources, such as saline waters and brines. Here, we synthesized and tested aminated silica gels, functionalized with REE-reactive ligands: diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), diethylenetriaminepentaacetic dianhydride (DTPADA), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), and N,N-bisphosphono(methyl)glycine (BPG). A suite of characterization techniques and batch adsorption experiments were used to evaluate the properties of the functionalized silica adsorbents and test the REE-uptake chemistry of the adsorbents under environmentally relevant conditions. Results showed that BPG and DTPADA yielded the most REE-reactive adsorbents of those tested. Moreover, the DTPADA adsorben...
Abstract The effect of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) on the expression of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-determined antigens in producer (P3HR-1 and B95-8) lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) and iododeoxyuridine (IUDR)-treated nonproducer cell lines (Raji and F137) was investigated. PAA effectively inhibited spontaneous early antigen (EA) synthesis in the P3HR-1 LCL only, while it had no effect on EA production in the B95-8 cell line nor on the IUDR-induced EA in nonproducer LCLs. The inhibition of spontaneous EA in P3HR-1 cell was dose and time dependant, and removal of PAA from cultures and subsequent propagation of these cells in PAA-free medium did not restore spontaneous EA production. The data reported show that EA is synthesized by at least two mechanisms in P3HR-1 cells, one of which is sensitive to PAA, thus suggesting that viral DNA synthesis is required for spontaneous EA synthesis only in the P3HR-1 cells; however, in these same cells, viral DNA synthesis would not be required for the IUDR-induced EA production.
The expression of most herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) immediate-early (IE) and early (E) genes decreases late in productive infection. IE and E promoters contain various binding sites for cellular activators, including sites for Sp1, upstream of the TATA box, while late gene promoters generally lack such sites. To address the possibility that Sp1 function may be altered during the course of infection, the modification state and activity of Sp1 were investigated as a function of infection. Sp1 was quantitatively phosphorylated in HSV-1-infected cells without a significant change in abundance. The kinetics of accumulation of phosphorylated Sp1 immediately preceded the decline in E gene (thymidine kinase gene [tk]) mRNA abundance. Phosphorylation of Sp1 required ICP4; however, the proportion of phosphorylated Sp1 was reduced during infection in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid or in the absence of ICP27. While the DNA binding activity of Sp1 was not greatly affected by phosphorylation, the ability of phosphorylated Sp1 isolated from HSV-infected cells to activate transcription in vitro was decreased. These studies suggest that modification of Sp1 may contribute to the decrease of IE and E gene expression late in infection.
Thestudy ofeucaryotic DNA polymerases should yield information useful fortherational design ofdrugs forantiviral therapy andadeeper understanding oftheregulation of cellproliferation. Theherpes simplex virus(HSV)DNA polymerase servesas a modelsystemforstudying eucaryoticpolymerase substrate specificity. Genetic studies of temperature-sensitive andantiviral drug-resistant HSV mutantsspecifying altered polymerases haveestablished that a viral gene encodes theDNA polymerase andthatitis essential forviral DNA replication (3,18,30). TheHSV DNA polymerase hasbeenpurified andcharacterized with respect tosubstrate specificity, reaction kinetics, andsensitivity toinhibitors suchasacycloguanosine, adenine arabinoside, orphosphonoacetic acid(8-10). Polymerases specifiedbydrug-resistant HSV mutantshavealtered binding affinities foreither PPi ordeoxynucleotide 5'triphosphates (8,18,32).OtherHSV mutantsselected fordecreased mutation frequency encodeDNA polymerases withdiminished binding affinity atthedeoxynucleotide 5'triphosphate site (15). Correlation oftheDNA sequencefortheHSVpolymerase gene(11, 28)withmapping ofpolymerase drugresistance mutations byfine structure marker rescue(5,11)indicates a clustering ofdrugresistance mutations in,roughly, the carboxyl-terminal half ofthepolymerase coding sequence. Thisclustering ofmutations hasbeeninterpreted aspossibly defining a functional domainoftheenzyme, perhaps a deoxynucleotide 5'triphosphate-binding
Herpesvirus DNA replication leads to unit length genomes that are translocated into preformed procapsids through a unique portal vertex. The translocation is performed by the terminase that cleaves the DNA and powers the insertion by its ATPase activity. Recently, we demonstrated that the putative human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) portal protein, pUL104, also forms high-molecular-weight complexes. Analyses now have been performed to determine the intracellular localization and identification of interaction partners of pUL104. In infected cells, HCMV pUL104 was found to be predominantly localized throughout the nucleus as well as in cytoplasmic clusters at late times of infection. The latter localization was abolished by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA replication. Immunofluorescence revealed that pUL104 colocalized with pUL56, the large subunit of the HCMV terminase. Specific association of in vitro translated pUL104 with the carboxyterminal half of GST-UL56C was detected. By using coimmunoprecipitations a direct interaction with pUL56 was confirmed. In addition, this interaction was no longer detected when the benzimidazole-D-nucleosides BDCRB or Cl 4 RB were added, thus indicating that these HCMV inhibitors block the insertion of the DNA into the capsid by preventing a necessary interaction of pUL56 with the portal. Electron microscopy revealed that in the presence of Cl 4 RB DNA is not packaged into capsids and these capsids failed to egress from the nucleus. Furthermore, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis showed that DNA concatemers synthesized in the presence of the compound failed to be processed.
The expression of most herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) immediate-early (IE) and early (E) genes decreases late in productive infection. IE and E promoters contain various binding sites for cellular activators, including sites for Sp1, upstream of the TATA box, while late gene promoters generally lack such sites. To address the possibility that Sp1 function may be altered during the course of infection, the modification state and activity of Sp1 were investigated as a function of infection. Sp1 was quantitatively phosphorylated in HSV-1-infected cells without a significant change in abundance. The kinetics of accumulation of phosphorylated Sp1 immediately preceded the decline in E gene (thymidine kinase gene [tk]) mRNA abundance. Phosphorylation of Sp1 required ICP4; however, the proportion of phosphorylated Sp1 was reduced during infection in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid or in the absence of ICP27. While the DNA binding activity of Sp1 was not greatly affected by phosphorylation, the ability of phosphorylated Sp1 isolated from HSVinfected cells to activate transcription in vitro was decreased. These studies suggest that modification of Sp1 may contribute to the decrease of IE and E gene expression late in infection.
When applied topically, trisodium phosphonoformate (PFA) displayed activity against established cutaneous herpesvirus infections in guinea pigs similar to that exhibited by the closely related phosphonoacetic acid (PAA); however, unlike PAA, PFA was not locally skin irritating. The therapeutic benefits of topical application of PFA were clearly evident when application was delayed for 48 h after virus inoculation, at which time lesions were well developed. The therapeutic effect was dependent on the concentration of PFA and the duration of treatment. PFA exhibited significant activity against established infections when administered intraperitoneally, although it was less effective via this systemic route than when applied topically.
Magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) internalized within stem cells have paved the way for remote magnetic cell manipulation and imaging in regenerative medicine. A full understanding of their interactions with stem cells and of their fate in the intracellular environment is then required, in particular with respect to their surface coatings. Here, we investigated the biological interactions of MNPs composed of an identical magnetic core but coated with different molecules: phosphonoacetic acid, polyethylene glycol phosphonic carboxylic acid, caffeic acid, citric acid, and polyacrylic acid. These coatings vary in the nature of the chelating function, the number of binding sites, and the presence or absence of a polymer. The nanoparticle magnetism was systematically used as an indicator of their internalization within human stem cells and of their structural long-term biodegradation in a 3D stem cell spheroid model. Overall, we evidence that the coating impacts the aggregation status of the nanoparticles and subsequently their uptake within stem cells, but it has little effect on their intracellular degradation. Only a high number of chelating functions (polyacrylic acid) had a significant protective effect. Interestingly, when the nanoparticles aggregated prior to cellular internalization, less degradation was also observed. Finally, for all coatings, a robust dose-dependent intracellular degradation rate was demonstrated, with higher doses of internalized nanoparticles leading to a lower degradation extent.
The nonstructural protein 5B (NS5B) of hepatitis C virus (HCV) is considered to possess RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) activity and to play an essential role for the viral replication. In this study, we expressed the NS5B protein of 65 kd by a recombinant baculovirus. With the highly purified NS5B protein, we established an in vitro system for RdRp activity by using poly(A) as a template and a 15-mer oligo(U) (oligo(U)15) as a primer. Optimal conditions of temperature and pH for primer-dependent polymerase activity of the NS5B were 32 degrees C and pH 8.0. The addition of 10 mmol of Mg2+ increased the activity. The importance of three motifs conserved in RdRp among other positive-strand RNA viruses was confirmed by introduction of an Ala residue to every amino acid of the motifs by site-directed mutagenesis. All mutants lost RdRp activity, but retained the RNA binding activity, except one mutant at Thr287/Asn291. Deletion mutant analysis indicated that the N-terminal region of NS5B protein was critical for the RNA binding. Inhibition of RdRp activity by (-)beta-L-2', 3'-dideoxy-3'-thiacytidine 5'-triphosphate (3TC; lamivudine triphosphate) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was observed after screening of nucleoside analogs and known polymerase inhibitors. These data provide us not only important clues for understanding the mechanism of HCV replication, but also a new target of antiviral therapy.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) productive DNA replication occurs at discrete sites, called replication compartments, in nuclei. In this study we performed comprehensive analyses of the architecture of the replication compartments. The BZLF1 oriLyt binding proteins showed a fine, diffuse pattern of distribution throughout the nuclei at immediate-early stages of induction and then became associated with the replicating EBV genome in the replication compartments during lytic infection. The BMRF1 polymerase (Pol) processivity factor showed a homogenous, not dot-like, distribution in the replication compartments, which completely coincided with the newly synthesized viral DNA. Inhibition of viral DNA replication with phosphonoacetic acid, a viral DNA Pol inhibitor, eliminated the DNA-bound form of the BMRF1 protein, although the protein was sufficiently expressed in the cells. These observations together with the findings that almost all abundantly expressed BMRF1 proteins existed in the DNA-bound form suggest that the BMRF1 proteins not only act at viral replication forks as Pol processive factors but also widely distribute on newly replicated EBV genomic DNA. In contrast, the BALF5 Pol catalytic protein, the BALF2 single-stranded-DNA binding protein, and the BBLF2/3 protein, a component of the helicase-primase complex, were colocalized as distinct dots distributed within replication compartments, representing viral replication factories. Whereas cellular replication factories are constructed based on nonchromatin nuclear structures and nuclear matrix, viral replication factories were easily solubilized by DNase I treatment. Thus, compared with cellular DNA replication, EBV lytic DNA replication factories would be simpler so that construction of the replication domain would be more relaxed.
A correlation between Epstein-Barr virus membrane antigen (MA) and three surface glycoproteins has been established on the basis of radio-immunoprecipitation and immunoabsorption experiments. For radio-immunoprecipitation, Epstein-Barr virus-infected cells were radiolabeled either with neuraminidase-galactose oxidase tritiated borohydride, a procedure highly specific for surface glycoproteins, or with a general tritiated amino acid mixture. Intact cells were incubated with MA(-) or MA(+) human sera, washed free of unbound immunoglobulins, and then lysed with Nonidet P-40. The antigen-antibody complexes were bound to protein A-Sepharose and after elution with sodium dodecyl sulfate were analyzed by acrylamide gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate. MA(+) sera specifically precipitated three glycoproteins with molecular weights of 236,000, 212,000, and 141,000 from B95-8 cells induced with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbal-13-acetate (TPA) and from Raji cells superinfected with P3HR-1 virus. These glycoproteins were not detected on Epstein-Barr virus-negative Ramos cells treated with TPA or on B95-8 cells treated simultaneously with TPA and phosphonoacetic acid. Soybean lectin-Sepharose bound all three glycoproteins, and lectin-Sepharose-bound glycoproteins from TPA-induced P95-8 cells absorbed MA-specific antibody from MA(+) human sera. The data strongly suggest that either all three glycoproteins have MA determinants or they are part of a complex in which one or more of the components constitute the reactive antigen.
Two distinct loci that confer resistance to acycloguanosine (acyclo-Guo) in herpes simplex virus types 1 have been identified. The first locus is the gene for the virus-specific thymidine kinase (TK). Mutations that decrease TK activity also render the virus resistant to acyclo-Guo, and the level of resistance corresponds to the decrease in TK activity. acyclo-Guo resistance due to defective TK expression is recessive to the wild-type phenotype, acyclo-Guo-sensitive (ACGs). We term this locus ACGr-TK. The second locus is defined by the properties of a mutant, PAAr5, which is resistant to acyclo-Guo and to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) yet exhibits wild-type TK activity. The acyclo-Guo-resistant locus in PAAr5 is separable from ACGr-TK mutations by recombination. Moreover, PAAr5 and ACGr-TK mutants can complement each other, producing drug-sensitive gene products which result in growth inhibition in the presence of acyclo-Guo. The acyclo-Guo resistance conferred by PAAr5 behaves as though it were codominant with the wild-type phenotype. This second acyclo-Guo-resistance locus is closely linked to the mutation specifying resistance to PAA. Resistance to PAA is thought to result from mutations in the gene for viral DNA polymerase. Thus, the close linkage of the ACGr and PAAr loci suggest that resistance to both drugs is specified by a mutant DNA polymerase. We term this second locus ACGr-PAA.
Abstract Two new cobalt phosphonates, [enH 2 ] 0.5 [Co(HL)(H 2 O)] · H 2 O (1) and [Co 2 (HL)(H 2 L) 2 ] · 2NH(CH 3 ) 2 · 3H 2 O (2) (H 3 L = 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid; en = ethylenediamine), have been synthesized under hydrothermal conditions and structurally characterized by X-ray single-crystal diffraction, X-ray powder diffraction, infrared spectroscopy, elemental analysis and thermogravimetric analysis. For compound 1 , Co(II) atoms are octahedrally coordinated. The CoO 6 octahedra and CPO 3 tetrahedra are linked by HL 2 − into a 2D layered structure in the bc -plane. The ethylenediamine molecules and solvate water molecules are located between two adjacent layers. The structure of compound 2 composed of Co1O 6 and Co2O 6 octahedra via bridging phosphonate ligands leads to a 2D layered structure with one-dimensional channel system along c -axis direction. The dimethylamine molecules and solvate water molecules are located between two adjacent layers. The surface photovoltage properties of compounds 1 and 2 have also been studied.
Topical treatment of herpes genitalis in female guinea pigs with 2-deoxy-D-glucose in either agarose gels or miconazole nitrate ointments failed to prevent the development of genital lesions or to reduce the mean titers of recoverable virus in vaginal swabs from infected animals. In contrast, phosphonoacetic acid was therapeutically effective.
Repair of airway epithelium after viral infection involves migration of epithelial cells to cover injured, denuded areas. We determined whether viral infection reduces the capability of bronchial epithelial cells to migrate and to attach to extracellular matrix proteins. Inoculation of bovine bronchial epithelial cells in vitro with bovine herpesvirus-1 reduced their ability to migrate in two different assays of cell migration. When attachment assays were performed, fewer cells attached to both control wells and matrix protein-precoated wells, suggesting that general mechanisms of adherence to substrates were altered by viral infection. Focal contact points of epithelial cells with the underlying matrix were evaluated with epifluorescence microscopy and monoclonal antibodies to vinculin and alpha v, an integrin chain. Disruption of focal contact points was seen early after infection and was prevented by an inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase, phosphonoacetic acid. Cycloheximide did not cause similar disruptions of focal contacts at early time points. Viral infection thus has marked effects on the interactions of bronchial epithelial cells with extracellular matrix and the organization of matrix to cytoskeleton links. The effects appear to be dependent in part on viral replication in the cells and are not simply due to reductions in host cell protein synthesis.
When applied topically, trisodium phosphonoformate (PFA) displayed activity against established cutaneous herpesvirus infections in guinea pigs similar to that exhibited by the closely related phosphonoacetic acid (PAA); however, unlike PAA, PFA was not locally skin irritating. The therapeutic benefits of topical application of PFA were clearly evident when application was delayed for 48 h after virus inoculation, at which time lesions were well developed. The therapeutic effect was dependent on the concentration of PFA and the duration of treatment. PFA exhibited significant activity against established infections when administered intraperitoneally, although it was less effective via this systemic route than when applied topically. Arch. Virol., in press). A comparison of the anti-herpesvirus drugs adenine arabinoside (ara-A), cytosine arabinoside (ara-C), 5'-iodo-2-deoxyuridine (IUdR), ribavirin, and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) on this model revealed that PAA was the only compound exhibiting good therapeutic activity when applied topically (Alenius and Oberg, in press). Also, PAA has been shown to be more active than ara-A, ara-C, IUdR, and ribavirin on cutaneous infection in hairless mice (3). A disadvantage observed with PAA was dermal toxicity at concentrations of 2% or more (3, 6; Alenius and Oberg, in press).
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) productive DNA replication occurs at discrete sites, called replication compartments, in nuclei. In this study we performed comprehensive analyses of the architecture of the replication compartments. The BZLF1 oriLyt binding proteins showed a fine, diffuse pattern of distribution throughout the nuclei at immediate-early stages of induction and then became associated with the replicating EBV genome in the replication compartments during lytic infection. The BMRF1 polymerase (Pol) processivity factor showed a homogenous, not dot-like, distribution in the replication compartments, which completely coincided with the newly synthesized viral DNA. Inhibition of viral DNA replication with phosphonoacetic acid, a viral DNA Pol inhibitor, eliminated the DNA-bound form of the BMRF1 protein, although the protein was sufficiently expressed in the cells. These observations together with the findings that almost all abundantly expressed BMRF1 proteins existed in the DNA-bound form suggest that the BMRF1 proteins not only act at viral replication forks as Pol processive factors but also widely distribute on newly replicated EBV genomic DNA. In contrast, the BALF5 Pol catalytic protein, the BALF2 single-stranded-DNA binding protein, and the BBLF2/3 protein, a component of the helicase-primase complex, were colocalized as distinct dots distributed within replication compartments, representing viral replication factories. Whereas cellular replication factories are constructed based on nonchromatin nuclear structures and nuclear matrix, viral replication factories were easily solubilized by DNase I treatment. Thus, compared with cellular DNA replication, EBV lytic DNA replication factories would be simpler so that construction of the replication domain would be more relaxed.
Among a collection of 18 fungal strains representing eight genera, only two strains (Penicillium oxalicum and P. minioluteum) were capable of growth on phosphonoacetic acid as sole phosphorous source. Enrichment liquid cultures in minimal medium with the compound as the only P-source selected four isolates, that were also identified as Penicillium spp. Phosphonoacetate metabolism did not lead to extracellular release of inorganic phosphate. In all cases phosphonoacetate hydrolase activity was detected in partially purified extracts, and a protein of the expected molecular mass reacted with polyclonal antibodies raised against the enzyme from P. oxalicum. There was no relation between phosphonoacetate hydrolase specific activity and growth rate or yield. Phosphonoacetic acid was the inducer of the hydrolase, independently of the concurrent availability of inorganic phosphate. Notwithstanding this, the utilization of the phosphonate was significantly inhibited in the presence of phosphate, suggesting an interference of the latter with phosphonoacetic acid uptake.
Several anti-herpes compounds, including phosphonoacetic acid, 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl) guanine, 9-β-D-arabinofuranosyladenine, 1-β-D-arabinofuranosylthymine, 5-iodo-5′-amino-2;5′-dideoxyuridine, 5-iodo-2′-deoxyuridine, 5-bromo-2′-deoxycytidine and various other 5-substituted 2′-deoxyuridines and 2′-deoxycytidines were compared in vitro (primary rabbit kidney cells) for both antiviral activity (based on the ID50 required to inhibit the cytopathogenicity of the KOS strain of type 1 herpes simplex virus) and antimetabolic activity (based on the ID50 required to inhibit the incorporation of 2′-deoxyuridine into host cell DNA). Of the whole set of compounds tested, E-5-(2-bromovinyl)- and E-5-(2-iodovinyl)-2′-deoxyuridine emerged as both the most potent and the most selective anti-herpes agents.
ABSTRACT Many viruses have the capacity to prevent a cell from being infected by a second virus, often termed superinfection exclusion. Alphaherpesviruses, including the human pathogen herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and the animal herpesvirus pseudorabies virus (PRV), encode a membrane-bound glycoprotein, gD, that can interfere with subsequent virion entry. We sought to characterize the timing and mechanism of superinfection exclusion during HSV-1 and PRV infection. To this end, we utilized recombinant viruses expressing fluorescent protein (FP) markers of infection that allowed the visualization of viral infections by microscopy and flow cytometry as well as the differentiation of viral progeny. Our results demonstrated the majority of HSV-1- and PRV-infected cells establish superinfection exclusion by 2 h postinfection. The modification of viral infections by virion inactivation and phosphonoacetic acid, cycloheximide, and actinomycin D treatments indicated new protein synthesis is needed to establish superinfection exclusion. Primary infection with gene deletion PRV recombinants identified that new gD expression is not required to establish superinfection exclusion of a secondary viral inoculum. We also identified the timing of coinfection events during axon-to-cell spread, with most occurring within a 2-h window, suggesting a role for cellular superinfection exclusion during neuroinvasive spread of infection. In summary, we have characterized a gD-independent mechanism of superinfection exclusion established by two members of the alphaherpesvirus family and identified a potential role of exclusion during the pathogenic spread of infection. IMPORTANCE Superinfection exclusion is a widely observed phenomenon initiated by a primary viral infection to prevent further viruses from infecting the same cell. The capacity for alphaherpesviruses to infect the same cell impacts rates of interviral recombination and disease. Interviral recombination allows genome diversification, facilitating the development of resistance to antiviral therapeutics and evasion of vaccine-mediated immune responses. Our results demonstrate superinfection exclusion occurs early, through a gD-independent process, and is important in the directed spread of infection. Identifying when and where in an infected host viral genomes are more likely to coinfect the same cell and generate viral recombinants will enhance the development of effective antiviral therapies and interventions.
Abstract Individual E/Z isomers of the C-methyl ester 1 of α-(hydroxyimino)phosphonoacetic acid (“troika acid”) were recently prepared as dicyclohexylammonium salts and found to be stable at neutral pH.1 On alkaline demethylation followed by pH adjustment to 6–7, E−1 and Z−1 stereospecifically undergo P-Cαand Cα-Cβ cleavage, respectively.1 Herein we report synthesis of the corresponding P-methyl ester from trimethyl phos-phonoacetate 2. The product was isolated as its bis-DCHA+ salt E-3, with stereochemistry assigned by NMR.2
Eight new polyphosphates containing both nucleic acid base and phosphonoacetic acid ethyl ester were synthesized by the polycondensation of P, P-dichloride of phosphonoacetic acid ethyl ester with 1, 3-dihydroxyalkyl-5-fluorouracil, 1,3-dihydroxyalkyl-uracil and 1,3-dihydroxyalkylthymine. These polyphosphates were tested against Ehrlich Ascites Carcinoma in mice. Polymer IIa and IIc exhibited excellent antitumor activity. IIc also showed lower toxicity.
Complex formation between oxovanadium(IV) and phosphonate ligands was investigated by pH potentiometric and spectroscopic (EPR and electronic absorption) techniques showing that, in contrast to monophosphate, which is able to bind the metal ion forming four-membered chelated rings, methylphosphonate acts only as a monodentate ligand so that hydrolysis sets in at very low pH. Other ligands have also been considered, phosphonoformic acid, its higher homologue phosphonoacetic acid, methylenediphosphonic acid and 1-hydroxy(methyl)methylenediphosphonic acid, which adopt a chelating behaviour and form much more stable complexes. Spectroscopic and potentiometric evidence for the binding of methylenediphosphonic and 1-hydroxy(methyl)methylenediphosphonic acid by oxovanadium(IV) yielding trinuclear species similar to the well-characterized analogue formed by diphosphate has been obtained.
Herpesviruses are among the most complex DNA viruses, encoding up to 200 genes. The characteristic temporal control of viral gene expression ensures the appropriate regulation of the morphogenic process. Transcription factors, activated immediately upon virion entry into cells or after reactivation of latent viruses, regulate the expression of early genes and start a cascade of transcription of early-late, leaky-late and true-late genes [1] . Remarkably, in contrast to leaky-late genes, expression of true-late genes begins only after viral DNA replication, and can be blocked by inhibitors of the viral DNA polymerase such as phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) [2] . As the expression of true-late genes depends upon viral replication, the promoters of late genes were analyzed in the context of origin of lytic replication (oriLyt) sequences. Notably, isolated true-late promoters encoded by plasmids or integrated into the cellular genome respond like early promoters upon infection. Yet, the same promoters, together with an oriLyt provided in cis, restore the typical late expression patterns. This property was first demonstrated for HSV-1 [3] , but was confirmed for several other herpesviruses [4, 5] . Six conserved replication proteins comprise the core components of lytic DNA replication and are shared by all herpesviruses [6] . To a certain degree, the core replication machinery can be complemented by another herpesvirus [7] . Yet, closely-related cytomegaloviruses (CMV) oriLyts are not exchangeable; the human CMV oriLyt cannot be activated by murine CMV or simian CMV [8, 9] .
Cell lines and growth conditions. All B lymphocyte cell lines were grown in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10% decomplemented fetal bovine serum supplemented with 2 mM L-glutamine, penicillin (50 U/ml), and streptomycin (50 J,g/ml). The cells were grown at 37°C in an atmosphere of 95% air, 5% Co2. B95-8 cells, an EBV producer line, were grown in the above medium supplemented with 100 t&g of phosphonoacetic acid (Richmond Organics) per ml to block late viral protein synthesis (29). However, the B95-8 cells were 2 to 3% early antigen (+) at the time of harvest. P3HR-1 (N) is an EBV-positive nonproducer subline of P3HR-1 obtained from Berge Hampar and was negative for all EBV antigens except EBNA. P3HR-1 (P) is an EBV producer line obtained from Meihan Nonoyama. BJAB and Ramos are EBV-negative B cell lines. B1-19 is an EBV-positive converted BJAB line obtained from Harald zur Hausen (7), and B1-19-2 is an EBNA-negative subline of B1-19 cloned in our laboratory. Both P3HR-1 (P) and B1-19 were passaged at daily intervals before harvest to minimize the number of early antigen (+) virus capsid antigen (+) cells. The Raji and Namalwa cell lines are EBVpositive, nonproducer cell lines.
Many viruses have the capacity to prevent a cell from being infected by a second virus, often termed superinfection exclusion. Alphaherpesviruses, including the human pathogen herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and the animal herpesvirus pseudorabies virus (PRV), encode a membrane-bound glycoprotein, gD, that can interfere with subsequent virion entry. We sought to characterize the timing and mechanism of superinfection exclusion during HSV-1 and PRV infection. To this end, we utilized recombinant viruses expressing fluorescent protein (FP) markers of infection that allowed the visualization of viral infections by microscopy and flow cytometry as well as the differentiation of viral progeny. Our results demonstrated the majority of HSV-1-and PRV-infected cells establish superinfection exclusion by 2 h postinfection. The modification of viral infections by virion inactivation and phosphonoacetic acid, cycloheximide, and actinomycin D treatments indicated new protein synthesis is needed to establish superinfection exclusion. Primary infection with gene deletion PRV recombinants identified that new gD expression is not required to establish superinfection exclusion of a secondary viral inoculum. We also identified the timing of coinfection events during axon-to-cell spread, with most occurring within a 2-h window, suggesting a role for cellular superinfection exclusion during neuroinvasive spread of infection. In summary, we have characterized a gD-independent mechanism of superinfection exclusion established by two members of the alphaherpesvirus family and identified a potential role of exclusion during the pathogenic spread of infection.
The ocean is an important source of methane, however, the sources of oceanic methane and mechanisms of its release to the atmosphere have only recently begun to be understood. Recent studies have identified methylphosphonate (MPn) as a previously unknown and likely source of methane in the aerobic ocean (Karl et al., 2008), as well as shown the biosynthesis of methylphosphonic acid to be a widespread trait in marine microbes (Metcalf et al., 2012). The mechanisms and reaction pathways from MPn to free methane, however, have not been well studied. Here we present results of laboratory studies on the photo-degradation of MPn, a likely mechanism of methane release to the atmosphere and phosphate release to the surface oceans. Phosphonoacetic acid was also studied as an additional model compound for comparison. We used the multi-labeled water isotope probing (MLWIP) approach, involving 18O-labeled waters to probe the photolytic mechanism of CP bond cleavage in phosphates through analysis of P released from MPn as PO4. These studies identified distinct reaction pathways involving phosphates compared with other common organophosphorus compounds (e.g., phosphoesters), as well as suggest the involvement of both ambient water and atmospheric oxygen in CP bond cleavage. There is only a small amount of water oxygen incorporated into product PO4 after cleavage of the CP bond in MPn, suggesting atmospheric O2 or radicals formed from O2 under Ultra Violet Radiation (UVR), as the primary source of O that replaces C in the CP bond of MPn. Model calculations suggest that the δ18OP signature of phosphate released via UV-degradation of phosphates is largely (75%) inherited from the original phosphate substrate. This opens up the possibility of tracing and differentiating specific phosphate sources of dissolved phosphate from other organophosphorus (Porg) sources (e.g., phosphoesters) used in primary production, as well as for tracing specific MPn sources of atmospheric methane.
We describe the mapping and sequencing of mutations within the DNA polymerase gene of herpes simplex virus type 1 which confer resistance to aphidicolin, a DNA polymerase inhibitor. The mutations occur near two regions which are highly conserved among DNA polymerases related to the herpes simplex enzyme. They also occur near other herpes simplex mutations which affect the interactions between the polymerase and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate substrates. Consequently, we argue in favor of the idea that the aphidicolin binding site overlaps the substrate binding site and that the near-by conserved regions are functionally required for substrate binding. Our mutants also exhibit abnormal sensitivity to another DNA polymerase inhibitor, phosphonoacetic acid. This drug is thought to bind as an analogue of pyrophosphate. A second-site mutation which suppresses the hypersensitivity of one mutant to phosphonoacetic acid (but not its aphidicolin resistance) is described. This second mutation may represent a new class of mutations, which specifically affects pyrophosphate, but not substrate, binding.
Antibody-induced change in the expression of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) antigens was studied after P3HR-1-EBV superinfection of Raji cells. The superinfected Raji cells were cultured in medium containing fetal calf serum (FCS) and either EBV antibodypositive or -negative human sera which had been selected for low natural cytotoxic antibodies to Raji cells. At 24 postsuperinfective (psi) h the percentages of early antigen (EA)-positive cells were similar for cultures with FCS only or also with EBV antibodypositive or -negative sera. However, at 48 psi h decreased expression of EA-positive cells was observed in cultures with EBV antibody-positive sera, but not with EBV antibody-negative sera or with FCS only. This EA suppressing effect was dependent upon concentration of EBV antibody-positive human serum and related with anti-viral capsid antigen (VCA) or membrane antigen (MA) titers among effective sera. Antibodymediated suppression of EA at 48 psi h was inhibited by treatment with phosphonoacetic acid which inhibits herpesvirus DNA replication and blocks late viral functions. These results are consistent with hypotheses that suppression of intracellular EA follows from modulation (or alteration) of MA by an anti-MA antibody and that a late viral function
AbstractSmall molecule inhibitors have a powerful blocking action on viral polymerases. The bioavailability of the inhibitor, nevertheless, often raise a significant selectivity constraint and may substantially limit the efficacy of therapy. Phosphonoacetic acid has long been known to possess a restricted potential to block DNA biosynthesis. In order to achieve a better affinity, this compound has been linked with natural nucleotide at different positions. The structural context of the resulted conjugates has been found to be crucial for the acquisition by DNA polymerases. We show that nucleobase-conjugated phosphonoacetic acid is being accepted, but this alters the processivity of DNA polymerases. The data presented here not only provide a mechanistic rationale for a switch in the mode of DNA synthesis, but also highlight the nucleobase-targeted nucleotide functionalization as a route for enhancing the specificity of small molecule inhibitors.
Seven polypeptides [300,000 (300K), 250K, 150K, 140K, 120K, 87K and 52K] were identified as Epstein-Barr virus(EBV)-related surface polypeptides expressed on n-butyrate-treated P3HR-1 cells. Five polypeptides (300K, 250K, 150K, 120K and 87K) were sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid, and four of these (300K, 250K, 120K and 87K) were glycoproteins. The 300K and 250K polypeptides had a slightly higher molecular size and the 87K polypeptide a slightly lower molecular size than the corresponding polypeptides detected in virus-producing P3HR-1 cells and in the envelope of EBV particles.
Both murine and human strains of cytomegalovirus were shown to be sensitive to the antiviral effects of adenine arabinoside and phosphonoacetic acid in tissue culture. In mice with lethal cytomegalovirus infections, treatment with adenine arabinoside (either 500 mg/kg intraperitoneally once daily or 250 mg/kg intraperitoneally twice daily for seven days) failed to reduce the mortality rate or to decrease the mean number of days until death. In contrast, treatment with the same dosage regimen of phosphonoacetic acid significantly reduced the mortality rate and decreased the mean number of days until death even when therapy was delayed for 24 hr. Although early treatment with phosphonoacetic acid resulted in a marked reduction in viral titers in the brains and lungs of infected mice, the major reason for efficacy appeared to be complete inhibition of viral replication in the liver. The observation that titers of complement-requiring neutralizing antibody were significantly lower in treated animals than in untreated controls is further evidence of successful therapy. Treatment of a nonlethal cytomegalovirus infection with phosphonoacetic acid beginning 48 hr after viral challenge resulted in elimination of clinical signs of illness and reduction in viral titers in tissues. These results indicate that phosphonoacetic acid is successful in the treatment of murine infections with cytomegalovirus; they suggest that this drug should be considered for potential use in serious cytomegalovirus infections in humans.
Cross-resistance data for a group of nine acyclovir-resistant variants of herpes simplex virus type 1 are reported. These mutants, which express either altered thymidine kinase (TK) or DNA polymerase, were all derived from the same wild-type (wt) strain after exposure to acyclovir in tissue culture. Furthermore, all variants have pathogenic properties similar to the wt parental strain as assessed using mouse model systems (G. Darby, H.J. Field, and S.A. Salisbury, Nature (London) 289:81-83, 1981; B.A. Larder and G. Darby, Virology 146:262-271, 1985). Two groups of antiherpes compounds were used: those requiring activation by TK and those whose action is independent of that enzyme. The TK substrate-specificity mutants were generally resistant to the TK-activated drugs but showed wt susceptibility to phosphonoacetic acid, 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine, and aphidicolin. The DNA polymerase mutants were relatively susceptible to most TK-activated drugs, although two were resistant to 5-(trifluoromethyl)-2'-deoxyuridine. The polymerase mutants showed a more complex pattern of susceptibility, however, to those compounds whose mode of action is independent of TK. In general, these variants showed similar responses to phosphonoacetic acid, phosphonoformate, and 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine, a particular variant being either resistant, susceptible, or hypertensive to all three. The response of each variant to aphidicolin, however, appeared to be the inverse of its response to the other three drugs. The cross-resistance patterns are discussed, and their implications for combined or successive therapies are considered.
Previously we constructed a null mutation in the HSV-1 UL45 gene, showed that the UL45 gene was not required for growth in Vero cells, and confirmed that it coded for an 18 kDa protein (R.J. Visalli and C.R. Brandt, Virology 185:419-423, 1991). In this study, we have continued our characterization of the UL45 gene and the 18 kDa protein. Analysis of UL45 RNA revealed that the gene was expressed late and was inhibited in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (paa), indicating it is a gamma 2 class gene. Using a specific polyclonal antiserum, we found that the 18 kDa UL45 gene product was also expressed late and was inhibited in the presence of paa. The 18 kDa protein was present in purified virions and was substantially enriched in the envelope-tegument fraction of virions disrupted with NP-40 detergent. The 18 kDa protein is thus a structural protein of the virus and appears to be associated with the viral envelope. A 20 kDa protein that cross-reacted with a polyclonal HSV-1 UL45 antiserum was also detected in cells infected with HSV-2 strain 333.
We describe the mapping and sequencing of mutations within the DNA polymerase gene of herpes simplex virus type 1 which confer resistance to aphidicolin, a DNA polymerase inhibitor. The mutations occur near two regions which are highly conserved among DNA polymerases related to the herpes simplex enzyme. They also occur near other herpes simplex mutations which affect the interactions between the polymerase and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate substrates. Consequently, we argue in favor of the idea that the aphidicolin binding site overlaps the substrate binding site and that the near-by conserved regions are functionally required for substrate binding. Our mutants also exhibit abnormal sensitivity to another DNA polymerase inhibitor, phosphonoacetic acid. This drug is thought to bind as an analogue of pyrophosphate. A second-site mutation which suppresses the hypersensitivity of one mutant to phosphonoacetic acid (but not its aphidicolin resistance) is described. This second mutation may represent a new class of mutations, which specifically affects pyrophosphate, but not substrate, binding.
Cross-resistance data for a group of nine acyclovir-resistant variants of herpes simplex virus type 1 are reported. These mutants, which express either altered thymidine kinase (TK) or DNA polymerase, were all derived from the same wild-type (wt) strain after exposure to acyclovir in tissue culture. Furthermore, all variants have pathogenic properties similar to the wt parental strain as assessed using mouse model systems (G. Darby, H. J. Field, and S. A. Salisbury, Nature (London) 289: 81-83, 1981; B. A. Larder and G. Darby, Virology 146:262-271, 1985). Two groups of antiherpes compounds were used: those requiring activation by TK and those whose action is independent of that enzyme. The TK substrate-specificity mutants were generally resistant to the TK-activated drugs but showed wt susceptibility to phosphonoacetic acid, 9-0-Darabinofuranosyladenine, and aphidicolin. The DNA polymerase mutants were relatively susceptible to most TK-activated drugs, although two were resistant to 5-(trifluoromethyl)-2'-deoxyuridine. The polymerase mutants showed a more complex pattern of susceptibility, however, to those compounds whose mode of action is independent of TK. In general, these variants showed similar responses to phosphonoacetic acid, phosphonoformate, and 9-jI-D-arabinofuranosyladenine, a particular variant being either resistant, susceptible, or hypersensitive to all three. The response of each variant to aphidicolin, however, appeared to be the inverse of its response to the other three drugs. The cross-resistance patterns are discussed, and their implications for combined or successive therapies are considered.
Abstract ::: Epstein-Barr virus superinfection of the human lymphoblastoid cell line Raji, a Burkitt lymphoma-derived line that contains Epstein-Barr virus genomes in an episomal form, results in the sequential synthesis of 29 detectable proteins, which range in molecular weight from approximately 155,000 to 21,000, and in the shutoff of the bulk of host protein synthesis within 6 to 9 h after infection. There are three classes of virus-induced proteins; these are an early class, consisting of eight proteins synthesized by 6 h postinfection, an intermediate class, containing two proteins synthesized 9 h postinfection, and a late class, consisting of five proteins synthesized 12 h postinfection. In addition, there is a fourth class of polypeptides, called persistent, that are found both before and after superinfection. The rates of synthesis of the proteins fall into three patterns; these are pattern A, in which the rate of synthesis decreases, pattern B, in which the rate of synthesis remains steady, and pattern C, in which the rate of synthesis increases after the initial appearance of the polypeptide. Both 9-(2-hydroxy-ethoxymethyl)guanine (acyclovir) and phosphonoacetic acid inhibit the appearance of one intermediate protein and at least three late proteins. Seven polypeptides are phosphorylated at different times after infection.
BACKGROUND ::: A deeper knowledge on the effects of the degradation of magnetic nanoparticles on their magnetic properties is required to develop tools for the identification and quantification of magnetic nanoparticles in biological media by magnetic means. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Citric acid and phosphonoacetic acid-coated magnetic nanoparticles have been degraded in a medium that mimics lysosomal conditions. Magnetic measurements and transmission electron microscopy have been used to follow up the degradation process. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Particle size is reduced significantly in 24 h at pH 4.5 and body temperature. These transformations affect the magnetic properties of the compounds. A reduction of the interparticle interactions is observed just 4 h after the beginning of the degradation process. A strong paramagnetic contribution coming from the degradation products appears with time. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: A model for the in vivo degradation of magnetic nanoparticles has been followed to gain insight on the changes of the magnetic properties of iron oxides during their degradation. The degradation kinetics is affected by the particle coating, in our case being the phosphonoacetic acid-coated particles degraded faster than the citric acid-coated ones.
Structure-based protein sequence alignments of family B DNA polymerases revealed a conserved motif that is formed from interacting residues between loops from the N-terminal and palm domains and between the N-terminal loop and a conserved proline residue. The importance of the motif for function of the bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase was revealed by suppressor analysis. T4 DNA polymerases that form weak replicating complexes cannot replicate DNA when the dGTP pool is reduced. The conditional lethality provides the means to identify amino acid substitutions that restore replication activity under low-dGTP conditions either by correcting the defect produced by the first amino acid substitution or by generally increasing the stability of polymerase complexes; the second type are global suppressors that can effectively counter the reduced stability caused by a variety of amino acid substitutions. Some amino acid substitutions that increase the stability of polymerase complexes produce a new phenotype-sensitivity to the antiviral drug phosphonoacetic acid. Amino acid substitutions that confer decreased ability to replicate DNA under low-dGTP conditions or drug sensitivity were identified in the new motif, which suggests that the motif functions in regulating the stability of polymerase complexes. Additional suppressor analyses revealed an apparent network of interactions that link the new motif to the fingers domain and to two patches of conserved residues that bind DNA. The collection of mutant T4 DNA polymerases provides a foundation for future biochemical studies to determine how DNA polymerases remain stably associated with DNA while waiting for the next available dNTP, how DNA polymerases translocate, and the biochemical basis for sensitivity to antiviral drugs.
Abstract ::: DNA-protein complexes isolated from adenovirus-infected cells by a modification of the M-band technique were used as an in vitro system for the study of adenovirus DNA replication. The synthesis in vitro was semiconservative, inhibited by N-ethylmaleimide, and stimulated by ATP. Studies on DNA-negative mutants of adenovirus showed that the DNA synthesis in vitro represents a continuation of adenovirus DNA replication in vivo. DNA synthesis in vitro was inhibited 38% by 20 microgram of phosphonoacetic acid per ml, which is several-fold higher than the inhibition obtained with purified DNA polymerase beta or gamma, but was similar to the degree of inhibition of DNA polymerase alpha. DNA synthesis in complexes from uninfected cells was much less sensitive to inhibition by phosphonoacetic acid. In addition, complexes from infected cells contained a greater proportion of the alpha-polymerase than complexes from uninfected cells, suggesting that an association of alpha-polymerase with the replication complex may be occurring during adenovirus infection, with subsequent utilization of the alpha-polymerase for viral DNA synthesis.
Background: A deeper knowledge on the effects of the degradation of magnetic nanoparticles on their magnetic properties is required to develop tools for the identification and quantification of magnetic nanoparticles in biological media by magnetic means. Methods: Citric acid and phosphonoacetic acid-coated magnetic nanoparticles have been degraded in a medium that mimics lysosomal conditions. Magnetic measurements and transmission electron microscopy have been used to follow up the degradation process. Results: Particle size is reduced significantly in 24 h at pH 4.5 and body temperature. These transformations affect the magnetic properties of the compounds. A reduction of the interparticle interactions is observed just 4 h after the beginning of the degradation process. A strong paramagnetic contribution coming from the degradation products appears with time.
A mutant allele (pol3-L612M) of the DNA polymerase δ gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that confers sensitivity to the antiviral drug phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was constructed. We report that PAA-sensitivity tagging DNA polymerases is a useful method for selectively and reversibly inhibiting one type of DNA polymerase. Our initial studies reveal that replication by the L612M-DNA pol δ requires Rad27 flap endonuclease activity since the pol3-L612M strain is not viable in the absence of RAD27 function. The L612M-DNA pol δ also strongly depends on mismatch repair (MMR). Reduced viability is observed in the absence of any of the core MMR proteins—Msh2, Mlh1, or Pms1—and severe sensitivity to PAA is observed in the absence of the core proteins Msh6 or Exo1, but not Msh3. We propose that pol3-L612M cells need the Rad27 flap endonuclease and MMR complexes composed of Msh2/Msh6, Mlh1/Pms1, and Exo1 for correct processing of Okazaki fragments.
The review deals with the present state of the chemistry of organophosphorus compounds with an active methylene group: esters and nitriles of phosphonoacetic acids, phosphonoacetone, and other compounds in which the methylene group is linked directly to the P=O and any other electronegative group. Compounds of this type are analogues of acetoacetic, malonic, cyanoacetic, and phenylacetic esters, the importance of which for theoretical and synthetic organic chemistry is well known. The methods for the synthesis of phosphorus-containing compounds with an active methylene group are considered in the first part of the review, while their chemical properties associated with the mobility of the hydrogen atoms of the methylene group (alkylation, addition, condensation, P(O)-activated olefin formation, and certain other reactions) are dealt with in the second part. The bibliography includes 292 references.
Colloidal cerium oxide has been obtained by controlled oxidation of soluble Ce(III) salts in hydrothermal conditions. The homogeneous nucleation of CeO2 through thermolysis of this oxidizing solution allows the formation of well dispersed colloidal particles. Under optimal conditions, well crystallized particles with an average size of 8 nm are obtained. The surface is terminated by acetate groups which can be substituted by grafting phosphonic acids or phosphoric acids. Particularly, the grafting of 2-carboxyethylphosphonic acid or phosphonoacetic acid increases the acidic character of the surface as observed by impedance spectroscopy.
The enzyme adenosine kinase (AK) plays a central role in regulating the intracellular and interstitial concentration of the purine nucleoside adenosine (Ado). In view of the beneficial effects of Ado in protecting tissues from ischemia and other stresses, there is much interest in developing AK inhibitors, which can regulate Ado concentration in a site- and event-specific manner. The catalytic activity of AK from different sources is dependent upon the presence of activators such as phosphate (Pi). In this work we describe several new phosphorylated compounds which either activate or inhibit AK. The compounds acetyl phosphate, carbamoyl phosphate, dihydroxyacetone phosphate and imidodiphosphate were found to stimulate AK activity in a dose-dependent manner comparable to that seen with Pi. In contrast, a number of phosphonate and bisphosphonate derivatives, which included clodronate and etidronate, were found to inhibit the activity of purified AK in the presence of Pi. These AK inhibitors (viz. clodronate, etidronate, phosphonoacetic acid, 2-carboxyethylphosphonic acid, N-(phosphonomethyl)-glycine and N-(phosphonomethyl)iminodiacetic acid), at concentrations at which they inhibited AK, were also shown to inhibit the uptake of (3)H-adenosine and its incorporation into macromolecules in cultured mammalian cells, indicating that they were also inhibiting AK in intact cells. The drug concentrations at which these effects were observed showed limited toxicity to the cultured cells, indicating that these effects are not caused by cellular toxicity. These results indicate that the enzyme AK provides an additional cellular target for the clinically widely used bisphosphonates and related compounds, which could possibly be exploited for a new therapeutic application. Our structure-activity studies on different AK activators and inhibitors also indicate that all of the AK activating compounds have a higher partial positive charge (delta(+)) on the central phosphorous atom in comparison to the inhibitors. This information should prove helpful in the design and synthesis of more potent inhibitors of AK.
BACKGROUND ::: The genome of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) has been studied extensively, particularly in the UL/b' region. In this study, transcripts of one of the UL/b' genes, UL146, were identified in 3 HCMV isolates obtained from urine samples of congenitally infected infants. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Northern blot hybridization, cDNA library screening, and RACE-PCR were used. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: All sequences of clones from a cDNA library were about 3225 bp in length with the same 5' and 3' ends. The results were accordant with that analyzed by Northen-blot and RACE-PCR in three HCMV clinical isolates. The transcript initiated from the region upstream of UL146 flanking region and terminated just downstream of UL132 including UL146, UL147, UL147A, UL148, and UL132 ORFs. Treatment of the infected cells with phosphonoacetic acid inhibited its transcription. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: UL146 ORF was transcribed with 4 downstream ORFs from UL147 to UL132 at true late kinetics. The transcript of UL146 initiated at 73nt upstream of UL146 and terminated just downstream of UL132 in the 3 clinical isolates.
ABSTRACT A mutant allele (pol3-L612M) of the DNA polymerase ␦ gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that confers sensitivity to the antiviral drug phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was constructed. We report that PAA-sensitivity tagging DNA polymerases is a useful method for selectively and reversibly inhibiting one type of DNA polymerase. Our initial studies reveal that replication by the L612M-DNA pol ␦ requires Rad27 flap endonuclease activity since the pol3-L612M strain is not viable in the absence of RAD27 function. The L612M-DNA pol ␦ also strongly depends on mismatch repair (MMR). Reduced viability is observed in the absence of any of the core MMR proteins-Msh2, Mlh1, or Pms1-and severe sensitivity to PAA is observed in the absence of the core proteins Msh6 or Exo1, but not Msh3. We propose that pol3-L612M cells need the Rad27 flap endonuclease and MMR complexes composed of Msh2/Msh6, Mlh1/Pms1, and Exo1 for correct processing of Okazaki fragments. E UKARYOTIC DNA polymerase ␦ (DNA pol ␦) is reacid (foscarnet) are effective antiviral drugs that inhibit replication by herpes and vaccinia DNA polymerases quired for chromosome replication, recombination, and repair, but there are several other DNA polymerases (Mao et al. 1975; Ö berg 1989; Taddie and Traktman 1991) and the HIV reverse transcriptase (Larder et al. in the cell, which makes it difficult to study DNA pol ␦ specifically. DNA polymerase inhibitors have the poten-1987). PAA appears to act as a pyrophosphate analog in the polymerase active center of sensitive DNA polytial to be useful, but the currently available inhibitors merases to severely reduce the polymerization reaction are not specific. Aphidicolin, for example, inhibits all (Leinbach et al. 1976) . Thus, since yeast like other euthree replicative DNA polymerases, DNA pols ␣, ␦, and karyotes is relatively resistant to PAA, PAA sensitivity is ε (Burgers and Bauer 1988). Mutations that confer expected to increase substantially if the wild-type DNA temperature sensitivity (ts) provide a way to block replipol ␦ is converted to a PAA-sensitive mutant. cation by a selected DNA polymerase, but ts DNA pol ␦ To construct a yeast DNA pol ␦ mutant with PAA sensimutants lose viability rapidly after exposure to the restrictivity, we used mutational studies of the bacteriophage T4 tive temperature (Weinert and Hartwell 1993), which DNA polymerase as a guide (Reha-Krantz 1995) . The prevents studies of recovery mechanisms. We report a bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase, like eukaryotic DNA new method for inhibiting DNA pol ␦ selectively: we pols ␣, ␦, and ε, is relatively resistant to PAA; however, constructed a mutant DNA pol ␦ in Saccaromyces cerevisiae several mutant T4 DNA polymerases were identified that is inhibited by the antiviral drug phosphonoacetic with markedly increased sensitivity (Reha-Krantz et al. acid (PAA).
The structures of seven salts formed by phosphonopropionic acid with organic diamines are reported; in these salts, the hydrogen-bonded substructures formed by the anions can be zero-, one- or two-dimensional, while the overall hydrogen-bonded supramolecular structures are three-dimensional. The 1:1 adduct, compound (1), formed between 1,2-bis(4'-pyridyl)ethene and phosphonopropionic acid is a salt, [[(C(12)H(10)N(2))H(2)](2+)].[(C(12)H(10)N(2))].[(C(3)H(6)O(5)P)(-)](2), in which both diamine components lie across centres of inversion in space group P2(1)/c. The anions form hydrogen-bonded head-to-head dimers, and these are linked by the two diamine units into sheets, which are themselves linked by C-H.O hydrogen bonds. With 2,2'-dipyridylamine the acid forms the hydrated salt [[(C(10)H(9)N(3))H](+)].[(C(3)H(6)O(5)P)(-)].H(2)O (2), in which all components are disordered with occupancy 0.5 in space group Fmm2. The anions form head-to-tail dimers, which are linked into sheets by the cations, and the sheets are linked into a three-dimensional framework by the water molecules. The piperazine salt [[(C(4)H(10)N(2))H(2)](2+)].[(C(3)H(5)O(5)P)(2-)] (3) contains simple anion chains linked into a three-dimensional framework by the two independent cations, both of which are centrosymmetric. In the hydrated salt formed by N,N'-dimethylpiperazine, [[(MeNC(4)H(8)NMe)H(2)](2+)].[(C(3)H(6)O(5)P)(-)](2).(H(2)O)(2) (4), head-to-tail anion chains combine with the water molecules to form a three-dimensional framework, which encloses voids that contain the cations. In the 4,4'-bipyridyl adduct [[(C(10)H(8)N(2))H(0.72)](0.72+)].[[(H(0.5)O)(3)PCH(2)CH(2)COOH(0.78)](0.72-)] (5), there is extensive disorder of the H atoms that are bonded to N and O atoms, and the anion chains are linked by the cations into sheets, which are themselves linked by C-H.O hydrogen bonds. In the 1:2 adduct formed with 1,2-bis(4'-pyridyl)ethane, [[(C(12)H(12)N(2))H(2)](2+)].[(C(3)H(6)O(5)P)(-)](2) (6), where the cation lies across an inversion centre, the anions form molecular ladders. These ladders are linked into sheets by the cations, which are themselves linked by C-H.O hydrogen bonds. In the methanol-solvated salt formed with 2,6-dimethylpiperazine, [[(C(6)H(14)N(2))H(2)](2+)].[(C(3)H(6)O(5)P)(-)](2). (CH(4)O)(0.34) (7), the anions form sheets that are linked into a three-dimensional framework by the cations. The supramolecular structures are compared with those of analogous salts formed by phosphonoacetic acid.
Human herpesviruses 6A/B (HHV-6A/B) can integrate their viral genomes in the telomeres of human chromosomes. The viral and cellular factors contributing to HHV-6A/B integration remain largely unknown, mostly due to the lack of efficient and reproducible cell culture models to study HHV-6A/B integration. In this study, we characterized the HHV-6A/B integration efficiencies in several human cell lines using two different approaches. First, after a short-term infection (5 h), cells were processed for single-cell cloning and analyzed for chromosomally integrated HHV-6A/B (ciHHV-6A/B). Second, cells were infected with HHV-6A/B and allowed to grow in bulk for 4 weeks or longer and then analyzed for the presence of ciHHV-6. Using quantitative PCR (qPCR), droplet digital PCR, and fluorescent in situ hybridization, we could demonstrate that HHV-6A/B integrated in most human cell lines tested, including telomerase-positive (HeLa, MCF-7, HCT-116, and HEK293T) and telomerase-negative cell lines (U2OS and GM847). Our results also indicate that inhibition of DNA replication, using phosphonoacetic acid, did not affect HHV-6A/B integration. Certain clones harboring ciHHV-6A/B spontaneously express viral genes and proteins. Treatment of cells with phorbol ester or histone deacetylase inhibitors triggered the expression of many viral genes, including U39, U90, and U100, without the production of infectious virus, suggesting that the tested stimuli were not sufficient to trigger full reactivation. In summary, both integration models yielded comparable results and should enable the identification of viral and cellular factors contributing to HHV-6A/B integration and the screening of drugs influencing viral gene expression, as well as the release of infectious HHV-6A/B from the integrated state.IMPORTANCE The analysis and understanding of HHV-6A/B genome integration into host DNA is currently limited due to the lack of reproducible and efficient viral integration systems. In the present study, we describe two quantitative cell culture viral integration systems. These systems can be used to define cellular and viral factors that play a role in HHV-6A/B integration. Furthermore, these systems will allow us to decipher the conditions resulting in virus gene expression and excision of the integrated viral genome resulting in reactivation.
Abstract Using purified B95-8 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a MAb designated H667 was produced. We demonstrated by indirect membrane immunofluorescence (IF) on six EBV producer cell lines and by immunoelectron microscopy that H667 reacted with a membrane antigen. H667 recognized a 43-kDa EBV protein (p43) as determined by immunoblotting using purified EBV from the six producer cell lines. Phosphonoacetic acid treatment of B95-8 cells was associated with the disappearance of p43, indicating that it was a late antigen. This antigen was shown to be a glycoprotein by incorporation of [ 14 C]glucosamine and was shown to contain an N -asparagine-linked glycosyl group by its sensitivity to tunicamycin. It was named gp43. The H667 MAb inhibited B95-8 EBV cord blood lymphocyte transformation only when a low inoculum was used but failed to inhibit EA induction in Raji cells by P3HR1 EBV. Human sera reactivity against the gp43 antigen was studied. By the immunoblotting method, using H667 immunoaffinity chromatography-purified gp43, we showed that 70.9% of the human sera tested had antibodies directed against gp43. By IF blocking tests, we found that only 12.5% of the sera tested were reactive, indicating that the epitope corresponding to the H667 MAb was not the most immunogenic gp43 epitope.
Abstract 1-Alkoxymethylvinylphosphonates 3a-e have been synthesized by piperidine catalyzed condensation of diethylphosphonoacetic acid 1 with paraformaldehyde in the presence of various primary and secondary alcohols. Similar reaction of the acid 1 with paraformaldehyde and sorbic alcohol 3f afforded a mixture of three bicyclic compounds 7, 9 and 11 in a ratio 2:1:1, respectively. The latter results strongly evidence the intermediacy of phosphonoacrylic acid 4 in the condensation. Under analogous conditions the olefin 14 was obtained from the acid (E,Z)-13.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) ZEBRA protein activates the EBV lytic cycle. Cellular AP-1 proteins with alanine-to-serine [AP-1(A/S)] substitutions homologous to ZEBRA(S186) assume some functions of EBV ZEBRA. These AP-1(A/S) mutants bind methylated EBV DNA and activate expression of some EBV genes. Here, we compare expression of 67 viral genes induced by ZEBRA versus expression induced by AP-1(A/S) proteins. AP-1(A/S) activated 24 genes to high levels and 15 genes to intermediate levels; activation of 28 genes by AP-1(A/S) was severely impaired. We show that AP-1(A/S) proteins are defective at stimulating viral lytic DNA replication. The impairment of expression of many late genes compared to that of ZEBRA is likely due to the inability of AP-1(A/S) proteins to promote viral DNA replication. However, even in the absence of detectable viral DNA replication, AP-1(A/S) proteins stimulated expression of a subgroup of late genes that encode viral structural proteins and immune modulators. In response to ZEBRA, expression of this subgroup of late genes was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), which is a potent viral replication inhibitor. However, when the lytic cycle was activated by AP-1(A/S), PAA did not reduce expression of this subgroup of late genes. We also provide genetic evidence, using the BMRF1 knockout bacmid, that these genes are true late genes in response to ZEBRA. AP-1(A/S) binds to the promoter region of at least one of these late genes, BDLF3, encoding an immune modulator.IMPORTANCE Mutant c-Jun and c-Fos proteins selectively activate expression of EBV lytic genes, including a subgroup of viral late genes, in the absence of viral DNA replication. These findings indicate that newly synthesized viral DNA is not invariably required for viral late gene expression. While viral DNA replication may be obligatory for late gene expression driven by viral transcription factors, it does not limit the ability of cellular transcription factors to activate expression of some viral late genes. Our results show that expression of all late genes may not be strictly dependent on viral lytic DNA replication. The c-Fos A151S mutation has been identified in a human cancer. c-Fos A151S in combination with wild-type c-Jun activates the EBV lytic cycle. Our data provide proof of principle that mutant cellular transcription factors could cause aberrant regulation of viral lytic cycle gene expression and play important roles in EBV-associated diseases.
A group of 43 phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant mutants of herpes simplex virus type 1 was isolated after the mutagenesis of infected cells with nitrosoguanidine. One of these mutants, designated PAA1rts1, was found to be temperature sensitive (ts), that is, unable to replicate at 39.5 degrees C, the nonpermissive temperature. Recombination analysis of PAA1rts1 indicated that the PAA1r mutation and the ts1 mutation are loosely linked and are located on two separate genes. PAA1rts1 showed a defect in viral DNA synthesis at 39.5 degrees C, which presumably can be attributed to the production of a PAA-resistant and thermolabile DNA polymerase. PAA1rts1 was also defective in the shutoff of host DNA synthesis at the restrictive temperature.
Abstract The physical location of the mutations ts C7, ts C4, and ts D9 (strain KOS), all of which affect HSV DNA polymerase, have been located on the physical map of the HSV-1 genome. Intertypic recombinants between HSV-1 mutants ts C4, ts D9, and ts C7 and HSV-2 (strain HG52) were generated by marker rescue. Restriction endonuclease analysis using five restriction enzymes led to the identification of the parental origin of the DNA sequences in the genomes of 15 recombinants of HSV-1 ts D9 with HSV-2, 13 recombinants of HSV-1 ts C7 with HSV-2, and 12 recombinants of HSV-1 ts C4 with HSV-2. In addition to the ts marker used for selection, a nonselected marker (phosphonoacetic acid resistance, paa r ) was present in all the crosses. All the mutations cluster in a 4.9-kilobase pair (kbp) region between map units 38.6 to 41.8. The mutations for paa r and ts D9 map within a 2.9-kbp region (40 to 41.8 map units). The ts C7 mutation is contained in a 1.5-kbp region to the left of the other (map units 38.6 to 39.6). The mapping limits for the mutation ts C4 are between map units 39.3 and 41.8. The mutations, at this point, have not been assigned to specific genes but the physical mapping results presented in this study clearly show clustering of these mutations in a discrete region of the genome.
Organic compounds containing heteroatoms like phosphorus, sulfur or silicon occupy a unique role in the arsenal of reagents widely applied in organic synthesis [1] [2] [3] . There is no doubt that the Wittig reaction of phosphorus ylides with carbonyl compounds as well as the Horner P(O)-olefination reaction using α-phosphonate carbanions and the Peterson reaction of α-silyl carbanions play the most important role in the synthesis of organic compounds containing carbon-carbon double bond. Our interest in organophosphorus and organosulfur chemistry led us to a broad study on the synthesis, properties and reactions of organic compounds containing both phosphorus and sulfur in one molecule [4] . Typical examples of such mixed P-and S-compounds obtained in our laboratory are α-phosphoryl sulfides and their oxidized analogues, α-trimethylsilyl substituted α-phosphoryl sulfides, α-(methylsulfenyl)phosphonoacetic acid and α-(methylsulfenyl)-δ-oxoalkanephosphonates. Their general structures are shown below (Scheme 1). In all these structures the α-hydrogen atom is relatively acidic and the corresponding α-phosphonate carbanions may be easily generated under basic conditions and reacted with carbonyl compounds and with a variety of other electrophiles [4] .
In terms of Umpolung concept [7] the synthesis of ketones shown above may be described as a nucleophilic acylation with elaboration of the electrophilic centre and the α-phosphoryl sulfides moiety may be regarded as a synthetic equivalent of an acyl anion. A similar reaction sequence with α-(methylsulfenyl) phosphonoacetic acid as a starting reagent afforded phenylpyruvic acid demonstrating thus a new approach to the synthesis of 1,2-dicarbonyl compounds (Scheme 3) [8] . Interestingly, the same bifunctional reagent was also converted in two simple steps (esterification, intramolecular Horner reaction) into unsaturated five-and six-membered cyclic esters (Scheme 3).
Ultraviolet (u.v.) light-irradiation of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) resulted in differential inactivation of virus capacities, e.g. induction of cell rounding, early antigens (EA), nuclear inclusion, HCMV DNA synthesis, cellular DNA synthesis, HCMV-specific DNA polymerase, cellular DNA polymerases and plaque production, while the capacity of HCMV to penetrate cell nuclei was not critically impaired. These results indicated that the virus-coded functions expressed after infection were responsible for sll these events except for HCMV-induced stimulation of cellular RNA synthesis which was enhanced by irradiation of the virus at a low dose of u.v. light (6600 ergs/mm2). In these experiments phosphonoacetic acid was effectively utilized to detect EA formation by immunofluorescent staining and to differentiate cellular DNA synthesis from virus DNA synthesis.
Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is a newly identified lymphotropic herpesvirus. We have analyzed viral and host DNA replication in peripheral blood lymphocytes infected in the absence of drugs or infected in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or acyclovir (ACV). The results revealed the following: (i) Infection with HHV-6 resulted in the shutoff of host DNA replication. (ii) PAA at concentrations of 100 and 300 micrograms/ml significantly reduced virus replication. The drug inhibited viral DNA replication, whereas host cell DNA replication was not affected. This strongly suggests that HHV-6 encodes a PAA sensitive viral DNA polymerase. (iii) ACV at 20 microM did not interfere with virus production and virus spread. ACV at 100 microM only partly interfered with virus replication, whereas at 400 microM the block was more complete. Viral DNA replication was not affected by ACV at 20 microM. However, approximately 60 and 85% inhibition in viral DNA replication was observed in the presence of 100 and 400 microM of ACV. (iv) Assays for viral thymidine kinase (TK) revealed no significant increase in TK activity, whereas increased TK activity was noted following infection of the same peripheral blood lymphocytes with herpes simplex virus. Thus, either HHV-6 does not encode a tk enzyme which can phosphorylate ACV or the inefficient block may reflect lower sensitivity of the HHV-6 DNA polymerase to the drug.
Chromatin prepared from (14C)-thymidine pulse labelled cytomegalovirus-infected human fibroblasts 72 hours postinfection exhibited under appropriate conditions endogenous activity of (3H)-thymidine triphosphate incorporation which was relatively salt-resistant and phosphonoacetic acid-sensitive. Isopycnic centrifugation of the doubly labelled DNA in CsCl revealed that cell-free incoporation occurred into viral as well as into host cell DNA. Density labelling experiments with bromodeoxyuridine triphosphate suggested the incoporation into viral DNA to be due to replicative DNA synthesis. Chromatin from infected cells contained, in addition to cellular, viral DNA polymerase activity.
Abstract Herpes simplex virus (HSV) uses intranuclear compartmentalization to concentrate the viral and cellular factors required for the progression of the viral life cycle. Processes as varied as viral DNA replication, late gene expression, and capsid assembly take place within discrete structures within the nucleus called replication compartments. Replication compartments are hypothesized to mature from a few distinct structures, called prereplicative sites, that form adjacent to cellular nuclear matrix-associated ND10 sites. During productive infection, the HSV single-stranded DNA-binding protein ICP8 localizes to replication compartments. To further the understanding of replication compartment maturation, we have constructed and characterized a recombinant HSV-1 strain that expresses an ICP8 molecule with green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to its C terminus. In transfected Vero cells that were infected with HSV, the ICP8–GFP protein localized to prereplicative sites in the presence of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or to replication compartments in the absence of PAA. A recombinant HSV-1 strain expressing the ICP8–GFP virus replicated in Vero cells, but the yield was increased by 150-fold in an ICP8-complementing cell line. Using the ICP8–GFP protein as a marker for replication compartments, we show here that these structures start as punctate structures early in infection and grow into large, globular structures that eventually fill the nucleus. Large replication compartments were formed by small structures that either moved through the nucleus to merge with adjacent compartments or remained relatively stationary within the nucleus and grew by accretion and fused with neighboring structures.
Murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) in its natural host, the mouse, is an excellent model for studying the biology of cytomegalovirus infection. Mostly this model has been used to study gene homologues of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). Of the predicted 170 MCMV open reading frames (ORFs) only 78 have significant amino acid identity with genes in HCMV. To better understand the biological mechanisms underlying the differences between the viruses, for example their species specificity and immune evasion genes, MCMV unique ORFs need to be examined. Here the role of m29 and m29.1 ORFs in the MCMV (Smith strain), which have no homology with ORFs of any other cytomegalovirus, have been examined. The m29 and m29.1 ORFs are overlapping and encoded on opposite strands of the double-stranded DNA genome. Sequence analysis over this region showed a discrepancy to the published sequence. An additional G (guanine) nucleotide was found at nucleotide position 36,198 that alters the predicted ORFs, m29 being 242 amino acids shorter and m29.1 210 amino acids longer than the predicted sequence. This was confirmed by sequencing the MCMV Birmingham K181 strain, the Birmingham Smith strain and MCMV wild type isolates- N1, K17A and G4. Transcripts from the newly identified m29 and m29.1 ORFs were confirmed by reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR). They were produced at early (3h) and immediate-early (2h) times post-infection respectively as determined by cycloheximide and phosphonoacetic acid treatment but were continuously expressed up to at least 24h post-infection. 5' and 3'-RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends) analysis from m29.1 ORF confirmed the production of a ~2.4 kb transcript and a low abundance spliced transcript from which a 123bp intron had been removed. Mutants of ORF m29 and m29.1 have been produced in which ET recombination was used to introduce stop codon mutations within these overlapping ORFs. This was achieved by single base alterations near to the 5` end of each ORF that prevented translation but not transcription of each ORF individually. Linear dsDNAs containing the mutations were introduced into the Smith MCMV BAC replacing an antibiotic cassette that had been inserted into the gene of interest. Mutant viruses, Rc29 and Rc29.1 respectively, were recovered from these mutant BACs by in vitro passage in tissue culture cells. Revertant virus (Rv29.1) was made by a further 2 step process in which the mutant m29.1 ORF was first replaced by the antibiotic cassette and then by the wt ORF. These mutants were characterized both in tissue culture and in immunocompetent BALB/c and immunodeficient SCID mice. Both mutants produced their expected transcripts but Rc29.1 virus produced no corresponding protein as examined by western blot using an antibody produced in rabbits to bacterially expressed protein. Failure to express the m29 ORF in bacteria and failure of a synthetic peptide to generate rabbit antibodies that bound to denatured m29 protein meant that protein expression of the m29 gene in either mutant could not be determined. Mutant virus Rc29 replicated similarly to wild type virus both in tissue culture and in BALB/c mice. Mutant virus Rc29.1 replicated poorly with lower yields, a delay of about 2-3 days in reaching peak titres and an earlier decline compared to wt and revertant (Rv29.1) virus in tissue culture. Rc29.1 virus also showed delayed replication in the salivary glands of BALB/c mice compared to wt and Rv29.1 viruses and in SCID mice peak titres occurred later and mice became sick and had to be humanely killed approximately 8 days later that mice infected with wt virus. These results suggest that m29 and m29.1 ORFs are dispensable for viral replication in vitro in NIH 3T3 cells and in animal hosts. However, the m29.1 ORF is required for optimal viral growth in vitro and in vivo.
Mutations (paar) in herpes simplex virus (HSV) which confer resistance to phosphonoacetic acid involve genes associated with virus-induced DNA polymerase activity. Two mutants of HSV (HSV-1 tsH and HSV-2 ts6) produce a thermolabile DNA polymerase activity. In this study, the ts lesions present in these mutants and those present in two independent phosphonoacetic acid-resistant mutants of HSV-1 and HSV-2 (paar-1 and paar-2) have been physically mapped by restriction endonuclease analysis of recombinants produced between HSV-1 and HSV-2 by intertypic marker rescue. All four mutations mapped within a 3.3-kilobase pair region around map unit 40. The accuracy of the method is reflected by the mapping results for tsH and paar-2, which were found to lie in the same 1.3-kilobase pair region. paar-1 was found to lie to the right of ts6. Virus-induced DNA polymerase is thought to have a molecular weight of 150,000, necessitating a gene with a coding capacity of 4.6 kilobase pairs. The four mutations mapped in this study all lie within a region smaller than this, but the results do not yet prove that all four lesions reside in this or any single gene.
Morphological changes have been reported previously in the developing dental tissues of the rat molar following administration of mono- or bisphosphonates. However, few studies have been published on the relationship between these and the possible mineralization disturbances. Two monophosphonates, phosphonoformic and phosphonoacetic acids, and two bisphosphonates, dichloromethylene bisphosphonate (Cl2MBP) and 1-hydroxyethylidene-1, 1-bisphosphonate (HEBP) in a dosage of 10-30 mg P/kg b.w. were injected in 5 day old rats and the induced changes analyzed by microradiographic and histologic examination. A single injection of mono- or bisphosphonates resulted in apparently identical disturbances of the developing enamel associated with subameloblastic cysts. Three different types of cysts were distinguished. In type 1 cysts, enamel hypoplasia near the cusp tip with an outer highly mineralized zone associated with calcified deposits in the cystic lining and inner hypomineralized enamel were discerned. The type 2 cysts were characterized by the formation of a thick enamel layer in the cervical area and deep in the fissures due to the development of internal enamel defects. The type 3 cysts were seen in the cervical area of the mesial or distal sides of the tooth without any remarkable changes in the underlying enamel matrix. Both Cl2MBP and HEBP induced two demarcation lines in the dentin layer. Additionally, HEBP resulted in the formation of niche-like defects of unmineralized dentin which healed by mineral deposition from the periphery. From these results, it can be concluded that mono- and bisphosphonates have similar effects on enamel mineralization and the type of response depends on the stage of enamel matrix secretion while bisphosphonates, in addition, interfere with the dentin mineralization.
We arereporting thephysical location ofparental DNA sequences in28 recombinants produced bycrossing herpes simplex viruses (HSV)1and2.The parental crosses wereoftwokinds. Inthefirst, temperature-sensitive mutants ofHSV-1andHSV-2werecrossed toproduce wild-type recombinants. Inthe second, temperature-sensitive mutants ofHSV-1rendered resistant tophosphonoacetic acid werecrossed withwild-type HSV-2, andrecombinants thatmultiplied atnonpermissive temperature andwereresistant tothedrugwereselected. TheDNAsoftherecombinants weremapped withXbaI, EcoRI, HpaI, HsuI, BglII, and,insomeinstances, KpnIrestriction endonucleases. Theresults wereasfollows. (i)We established thecolinear arrangements ofHSV-1and HSV-2DNAs.(ii) Therewasextensive interchange ofgenomic regions, ranging fromtheexchange ortheentire LofScomponent ofHSVDNA tosubstitutions ofregions within thesamecomponent. Insomerecombinants, thereiterated sequences abandacbracketing theL andScomponents ofHSV DNA were heterotypic. Mostrecombinants grewwellandshowed noobvious defects. (iii) Thenumberofcrossover events ranged fromonetoasmanyassix.Although crossover events occurred throughout theDNA,someclustering ofcrossover events wasobserved. (iv) Analysis ofrecombinants permitted localization of several markers usedinthisstudyandappears tobeauseful technique for marker mapping. (v)Aspreviously reported, HSVDNA consists offour populations, differing inrelative orientation oftheLandScomponents. Allrecombinants could bedisplayed inonearrangement ofLandSsuchthatthenumberof crossover events wasminimized. Thedataareconsistent withthehypothesis that only onearrangement oftheparental DNA participates inthegeneration of recombinants. Inthis paper wereport ontheDNA structure andproperties ofrecombinants produced betweenherpes simplex viruses (humanherpesvirus, HSV)1and2.Pertinent tothedesign andpurpose ofthese studies arethefollowing.
Ultraviolet (u.v.) light-irradiation of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) resulted in differential inactivation of virus capacities, e.g. induction of cell rounding, early antigens (EA), nuclear inclusion, HCMV DNA synthesis, cellular DNA synthesis, HCMV-specific DNA polymerase, cellular DNA polymerases and plaque production, while the capacity of HCMV to penetrate cell nuclei was not critically impaired. These results indicated that the virus-coded functions expressed after infection were responsible for all these events except for HCMV-induced stimulation of cellular RNA synthesis which was enhanced by irradiation of the virus at a low dose of u.v. light (66oo ergs/mm2). In these experiments phosphonoacetic acid was effectively utilized to detect EA formation by immunofluorescent staining and to differentiate cellular DNA synthesis from virus DNA synthesis.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) uses intranuclear compartmentalization to concentrate the viral and cellular factors required for the progression of the viral life cycle. Processes as varied as viral DNA replication, late gene expression, and capsid assembly take place within discrete structures within the nucleus called replication compartments. Replication compartments are hypothesized to mature from a few distinct structures, called prereplicative sites, that form adjacent to cellular nuclear matrix-associated ND10 sites. During productive infection, the HSV single-stranded DNA-binding protein ICP8 localizes to replication compartments. To further the understanding of replication compartment maturation, we have constructed and characterized a recombinant HSV-1 strain that expresses an ICP8 molecule with green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to its C terminus. In transfected Vero cells that were infected with HSV, the ICP8 -GFP protein localized to prereplicative sites in the presence of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or to replication compartments in the absence of PAA. A recombinant HSV-1 strain expressing the ICP8 -GFP virus replicated in Vero cells, but the yield was increased by 150-fold in an ICP8-complementing cell line. Using the ICP8 -GFP protein as a marker for replication compartments, we show here that these structures start as punctate structures early in infection and grow into large, globular structures that eventually fill the nucleus. Large replication compartments were formed by small structures that either moved through the nucleus to merge with adjacent compartments or remained relatively stationary within the nucleus and grew by accretion and fused with neighboring structures.
In the absence of viral replication, as with the treatment with the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), the viral replication proteins including ICP8, the origin-binding protein, and the helicase-primase complex are distributed within the nucleus to punctate structures called prereplicative sites (de Bruyn Kops and Knipe, 1988; Liptak et al., 1996; Lukonis and Weller, 1996; Quinlan et al., 1984) . Because the replication proteins associate with these structures in the absence of viral DNA synthesis, they are hypothesized to be an early stage of protein accumulation and, thus, the precursors to replication compartments. However, in the presence of PAA, two populations of prereplicative sites are observed (Lukonis et al., 1997; Uprichard and Knipe, 1997) . One population, the S-phase-dependent prereplicative sites, co-localize with sites of cellular DNA synthesis, as shown by BrdU incorporation (Uprichard and Knipe, 1997) . In contrast, the other population, the S-phase-independent prereplicative sites, form adjacent to cellular ND10 sites (Uprichard and Knipe, 1997) . The function of ND10 sites is unknown, but it has been suggested that they are involved in processes as varied as transcriptional control, cell growth and regulation, and antiviral defense (Ascoli and Maul, 1991; Maul et al., 2000; Negorev and Maul, 2001; Zhong et al., 2000) . The "nuclear domain 10" or ND10 structures vary in number in mammalian cells in the range of 10 -30 per nucleus, and are generally 0.2-1.0 m in diameter (Everett et al., 1999; Hodges et al., 1998; Zhong et al., 2000) . The size and number of ND10 structures change during the cell cycle, which varies with the presence of hormones or interferon, possibly via a pathway regulated by the promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) (Everett et al., 1999; Hodges et al., 1998; Negorev and Maul, 2001; Zhong et al., 2000) . While ND10 structures have been found in numerous cell types in cultured cells or in vivo, they have yet to be detected in cells of a neuronal lineage (Negorev and Maul, 2001) . The role that ND10 structures play in viral infection is also unclear as these structures are disrupted soon after infection by the viral immediate-early gene product ICP0, possibly via a proteasome-dependent mechanism (Everett et al., 1998; Everett and Maul, 1994) . It has previously been shown that incoming genomes of various viruses including HSV, SV40, and adenovirus are deposited near ND10 structures in the absence of viral protein production via an unknown mechanism Maul et al., 1996) . However, the cellular machinery that one might imagine that a virus would require to replicate its genome is not present at these sites and must be recruited to the parental genome(s). In contrast, the S-phase-dependent sites are regions of active cellular DNA synthesis and presumably contain the cellular machinery needed for viral DNA synthesis (de Bruyn Kops and Uprichard and Knipe, 1997) . It is possible that the virus may usurp these preformed replication complexes for its own purposes and that these sites are the precursors of viral replication compartments.
At first, we compared the attachment and penetration rates of BHV-1 to A31 cells with those to MDBK and HmLu-1 cells according to the method described previously [4] [5] [6] [7] . Figure 1 A shows the attachment of BHV-1 to MDBK, HmLu-1 and A31 cells. Cell monolayers in 6-well culture plates were incubated with wild-type BHV-1 (LA strain) at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10 (10 PFU/ cell) for 2 hr at 4°C, scraped and washed with PBS, and total (cellular and viral) DNA was extracted. The amount of BHV-1 DNA was measured by quantitative competitive polymerase chain reaction (QCPCR) assay [4] [5] [6] [7] . BHV-1 attached to cells at 4°C but did not penetrate into cells. The amounts of BHV-1 attached to HmLu-1 or A31 cells were at a similar level but was lower by approximately 50% when compared to those to MDBK cells. When temperature was shifted to 37°C, attached BHV-1 penetrated into cells and became resistant to trypsin treatment. In Fig. 1 B, the amount of penetrated BHV-1 into cells was shown as the percentage of trypsin resistant BHV-1 over attached one. Cells were incubated with BHV-1 at an MOI of 10 for 2 hr at 4°C, washed with PBS and overlaid with prewarmed medium containing an inhibitor of herpesvirus DNA replication, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA, 400 µg/ml). At 0, 2 and 5 hr after temperature shift, extracellular viruses were removed by trypsin treatment, and the amount of viral genome was measured by QCPCR assay. Penetration of BHV-1 into A31 or HmLu-1 cells was significantly reduced when compared to that into MDBK cells. At 5 hr postinfection (p.i.), approximately 20% of attached BHV-1 penetrated into HmLu-1 or A31 cells, while about 80 % of BHV-1 could penetrate into MDBK cells. From these results, it is apparent that the attachment and penetration of BHV-1 were significantly impaired in non-permissive A31 cells when compared to those in permissive MDBK cells. However, the attachment and penetration in A31 cells were similar levels that were seen in semi-permissive HmLu-1 cells, suggesting that the virus attachment and penetration do not
Infection of serum-starved human fibroblasts by human cytomegalovirus in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid was found to induce host cell DNA replication without coordinated histone synthesis.
2-Deoxy-D-glucose (dGlc) was found to selectively inhibit virus DNA synthesis in human embryonic lung cells infected with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). The effective concentration of dGlc was approx. 10-fold higher in culture medium containing glucose instead of sodium pyruvate. This inhibitory action of dGlc was fully reversible following replacement of the inhibitor medium by fresh medium after a 48 h treatment of infected cells. Virus DNA synthesis could be selectively inhibited by addition of dGlc even after initiation of HCMV DNA replication. In contrast, virus DNA synthesis in herpes simplex virus-infected cells was insensitive to dGlc. The drug was found to deplete HCMV-infected cells of uridine triphosphate and caused a progressive reduction of uridine incorporation into RNA. To substantiate a possible interference by dGlc with the expression and/or function of virus-induced, chromatin-associated factors essential for virus DNA replication, DNA synthesis of chromatin preparations from dGlc-treated, HCMV-infected cells was analysed. In contrast to preparations of untreated or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-treated, HCMV-infected cells, those of dGlc-treated cells lacked significant in vitro DNA-synthesizing activity; virus DNA was not synthesized by these preparations. Tunicamycin in the presence of low concentrations of dimethyl sulphoxide was also found to be effective in abolishing HCMV-induced DNA replication. It is thus suggested that dGlc interferes with the function of an 'early' chromatin-associated glycoprotein essential for virus DNA synthesis.
Phosphonoacetic acid, (HO)(2)P(O)CH(2)COOH, forms adducts with a range of amines. The acid component in these adducts may be the neutral molecule C(2)H(5)O(5)P, the mono-anion (C(2)H(4)O(5)P)(-) or the di-anion (C(2)H(3)O(5)P)(2-). The substructure formed by the acid component takes the form of simple chains in compounds (1)-(3), which are the 1:1 adducts formed with 1,4-diazabicyclo[2.2.2]octane, 4,4'-bipyridyl and 1,3-trimethylenedipiperidine, respectively. These adducts contain C(2)H(5)O(5)P, (C(2)H(4)O(5)P)(-) and (C(2)H(3)O(5)P)(2-), respectively, although (3) is solvated by a mixture of methanol and water. The (C(2)H(4)O(5)P)(-) anion substructure in (4), which is the adduct formed with meso-5,5,7,12,12,14-hexa-C-methyl-1,4,8,11-tetraazacyclotetradecane, is a chain of spiro-fused rings, while the substructure in (5), which is the adduct formed with 2,2'-dipyridylamine, is a chain of edge-fused rings. In (6), the adduct formed with 1,2-bis(4'-pyridyl)ethane, the anion substructure is two-dimensional. The chain substructures are linked by the amine units into two-dimensional structures in (1) and (4) and into three-dimensional frameworks in (2), (3) and (5), while the anion sheets in (6) are likewise linked by the amine units into a three-dimensional framework.
Reactions of divalent cations (Mg(2+), Co(2+), Ni(2+), and Zn(2+)) with R,S-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA) in aqueous solutions (pH values ranging 1.0-4.0) yielded a range of crystalline hydrated M-HPAA hybrids. One-dimensional (1D) chain compounds were formed at room temperature whereas reactions conducted under hydrothermal conditions resulted in two-dimensional (2D) layered frameworks or, in some cases, three-dimensional (3D) networks incorporating various alkaline cations. 1D phases with compositions [M{HO(3)PCH(OH)CO(2)}(H(2)O)(2)].2H(2)O (M = Mg, Co, and Zn) were isolated. These compounds were dehydrated in liquid water to yield the corresponding [M{HO(3)PCH(OH)CO(2)}(H(2)O)(2)] compounds lacking the lattice water between the 1D chains. [M{HO(3)PCH(OH)CO(2)}(H(2)O)(2)] (M = Mg, Ni, Co, Zn) compounds were formed by crystallization at room temperature (at higher pH values) or also by partial dehydration of 1D compounds with higher hydration degrees. Complete dehydration of these 1D solids at 240-270 degrees C led to 3D phases, [M{HO3PCH(OH)CO(2)}]. The 2D layered compound [Mg{HO(3)PCH(OH)CO(2)}(H(2)O)(2)] was obtained under hydrothermal conditions. For both synthesis methods, addition of alkali metal hydroxides to adjust the pH usually led to mixed phase materials, whereas direct reactions between the metal oxides and the hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid gave single phase materials. On the other hand, adjusting the pH with acetate salts and increasing the ratio M(2+)/HPAA and/or the A(+)/M(2+) ratio (A = Na, K) resulted in 3D networks, where the alkali cations were incorporated within the frameworks for charge compensation. The crystal structures of eight new M(II)-HPAA hybrids are reported herein and the thermal behavior related to dehydration/rehydration of some compounds are studied in detail.
The antiviral effects of interferon (IFN) on varicella zoster virus (VZV) and herpes simplex virus (HSV) in vitro were examined. The values for the 50% inhibitory dose (1050) of IFN- a, f3 and ·Y determined by plaque reduction assay, were 0.813, 0.650 and 13.750 IU/ml, respectively, against VZV and 18.00, 10.38 and 115.0 IU/ml, respectively, against HSV. Thus IFN- a and f3 were more effective than IFN- Y against both VZV and HSV and VZV was more sensitive than HSV to the IFNs. Five mutants of VZV which were resistant to acyclovir (ACV), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) or bromodeoxyuridine (BUDR) were also sensitive to IFN /3, their average 1050 being 1.31 IU/ml. Analysis of virus-specific proteins by the immunofluorescent technique with various antisera showed that IFN had a significant effect before early protein synthesis.
The replication of wild-type herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) was very sensitive to aphidicolin, a specific inhibitor of eukaryotic alpha-type DNA polymerases; viral DNA synthesis was strongly inhibited by 1 microgram/ml of aphidicolin, but the synthesis of early viral polypeptides was not affected. Using aphidicolin as the selective agent, aphidicolin-resistant ( Aphr ) viruses were isolated from HSV-2 strain 186. All of these plaque isolates induced altered viral DNA polymerases which were more resistant to aphidicolin than wild-type polymerase. These results clearly indicate that viral DNA polymerase is a target of aphidicolin in vivo and suggest that host cell DNA polymerase alpha may be not involved in the replication of HSV-2. Partially purified mutant polymerase exhibited a 7.5-fold lower apparent Km for dCTP and a 3-fold lower apparent Km for dTTP than similarly purified wild-type enzyme. The apparent Ki value for aphidicolin of the mutant polymerase was 6.5-fold higher than that of the wild-type enzyme. Moreover, all Aphr viruses isolated were also resistant to thymine-1-beta-D-arabinofuranoside (ara-T). While, they were as sensitive as wild-type virus to cytosine-1-beta-D-arabinofuranoside (ara-C), adenine-9-beta-D-arabinofuranoside (ara-A), and acycloguanosine (acyclo-G). Interestingly these Aphr isolates were more sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) than the wild-type. In contrast, PAA-resistant ( PAAr ) viruses of HSV-2 were more sensitive to aphidicolin and were more resistant to all of four nucleoside analogs than the parental wild-type virus. These results suggest that the aphidicolin-binding site of HSV DNA polymerase may be very close to the binding sites for dCTP and dTTP and it functionally correlates with that for pyrophosphate group.
We describe a recombinant antigen for use in serologic tests for antibodies to Kaposi's sarcoma (KS)-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). The cDNA for a small viral capsid antigen (sVCA) was identified by immunoscreening of a library prepared from the BC-1 body cavity lymphoma cell line induced into KSHV lytic gene expression by sodium butyrate. The cDNA specified a 170-amino-acid peptide with homology to small viral capsid proteins encoded by the BFRF3 gene of Epstein-Barr virus and the ORF65 gene of herpesvirus saimiri. KSHV sVCA was expressed from a 0.85-kb mRNA present late in lytic KSHV replication in BC-1 cells. This transcript was sensitive to phosphonoacetic acid and phosphonoformic acid, inhibitors of herpesvirus DNA replication. KSHV sVCA expressed in mammalian cells or Escherichia coli or translated in vitro was recognized as an antigen by antisera from KS patients. Rabbit antisera raised to KSHV sVCA expressed in E. coli detected a 22-kDa protein in KSHV-infected human B cells. Overexpressed KSHV sVCA purified from E. coli and used as an antigen in immunoblot screening assay did not cross-react with EBV BFRF3. Antibodies to sVCA were present in 89% of 47 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients with KS, in 20% of 54 HIV-positive patients without KS, but in none of 122 other patients including children born to HIV-seropositive mothers and patients with hemophilia, autoimmune disease, or nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Low-titer antibody was detected in three sera from 28 healthy subjects. Antibodies to recombinant sVCA correlate with KS in high-risk populations. Recombinant sVCA can be used to examine the seroepidemiology of infection with KSHV in the general population.
SummaryThe therapeutic effectiveness of six antiviral agents and certain combinations were evaluated under the same experimental conditions during systemic HVH infection of mice. The agents used were adenine arabinoside (ARA-A), cytosine arabinoside (ARA-C), idoxuridine (IDU), polyinosinic polycytidylic acid (In Cn), interferon, and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Treatment with ARA-A begun as late as 3 days after the virus infection was highly effective in preventing death. Interferon begun on Day 4 prolonged survival. In similar experiments, no antiviral effect of either IDU or PAA could be demonstrated, while therapy with ARA-C potentiated the infection. Of the drug combinations tested, none was more effective than the better agent alone. Unexpectedly a protective and nontoxic dose of ARA-A when combined with a nontoxic dose of In Cn resulted in a synergistic mortality in uninfected mice.
2-Deoxy-D-glucose (dGlc) was found to selectively inhibit virus DNA synthesis in human embryonic lung cells infected with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV). The effective concentration of dGlc was approx. 10-fold higher in culture medium containing glucose instead of sodium pyruvate. This inhibitory action of dGlc was fully reversible following replacement of the inhibitor medium by fresh medium after a 48 h treatment of infected cells. Virus DNA synthesis could be selectively inhibited by addition of dGlc even after initiation of HCMV DNA replication. In contrast, virus DNA synthesis in herpes simplex virus-infected cells was insensitive to dGlc. The drug was found to deplete HCMV-infected cells of uridine triphosphate and caused a progressive reduction of uridine incorporation into RNA. To substantiate a possible interference by dGlc with the expression and/or function of virus-induced, chromatin-associated factors essential for virus DNA replication, DNA synthesis of chromatin preparations from dGlc-treated, HCMV-infected cells was analysed. In contrast to preparations of untreated or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-treated, HCMV-infected cells, those of dGlc-treated cells lacked significant in vitro DNAsynthesizing activity; virus DNA was not synthesized by these preparations. Tunicamycin in the presence of low concentrations of dimethyl sulphoxide was also found to be effective in abolishing HCMV-induced DNA replication. It is thus suggested that dGlc interferes with the function of an 'early' chromatin-associated glycoprotein essential for virus DNA synthesis.
Polymerases in general share only a few regions of amino acid similarity. One of the most conserved regions, called motif A, has the sequence DXXSLYPSII or a similar sequence in many eukaryotic and viral DNA polymerases and in bacteriophage T4 DNA polymerase. We designed genetic techniques to isolate mutant T4 DNA polymerases with amino acid substitutions in this highly conserved motif. The mutant DNA polymerases differed from wild type T4 DNA polymerase in several ways. For one mutant DNA polymerase, the pyrophosphate analog, phosphonoacetic acid, was a potent inhibitor of DNA replication, and this mutant DNA polymerase replicated DNA with reduced fidelity. Another mutant DNA polymerase replicated DNA with increased accuracy, but this mutant DNA polymerase was less processive in primer extension reactions, and DNA replication required high concentrations of deoxynucleoside triphosphates. We provide evidence that indicates that all of these changes to DNA polymerase function are due to differences in how the mutant DNA polymerases partition between states active for DNA replication or exonucleolytic proofreading. These studies also provide further support for the hypothesis that the accuracy of DNA replication observed for DNA polymerases and 3'-->5' exonuclease activities (Muzyczka, N., Poland, R. L., and Bessman, M. J. (1972) J. Biol. Chem. 247, 7116-7122).
A psychrophilic fungal strain of Geomyces pannorum P15 was screened for its ability to utilize a range of synthetic and natural organophosphonate compounds as the sole source of phosphorus, nitrogen, or carbon. Only phosphonoacetic acid served as a phosphorus source for microbial growth in phosphate-independent manner. Substrate metabolism did not lead to extracellular release of inorganic phosphate. No phosphonate metabolizing enzyme activity was detectable in cell-free extracts prepared from Geomyces biomass pregrown on 2 mmol/L phosphonoacetic acid.
Blot hybridization analysis of infected bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) cellular RNA isolated at various times post infection and after treatment with specific metabolic inhibitors was used to characterize transcription of the BHV-1 Cooper isolate. Synthesis of BHV-1 RNA was detected as early as 3 h post infection and reached a maximum at six to eight hours post infection. The most transcriptionally active area of the genome was between map units 0.110 to 0.195, within the HindIII I fragment. From the entire genome a total of 59 transcripts ranging in size from approximately 0.6 to 10 kilobases were characterized as belonging to one of three distinct classes. Using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, three immediate-early transcripts were identified as originating from the internal inverted repeat region between map units 0.734 and 0.842, corresponding to the HindIII D fragment. Using phosphonoacetic acid to prevent virus DNA synthesis by inhibition of the BHV-1 DNA polymerase, 28 early transcripts were recognized. The remaining 28 transcripts, classified as late RNA, were detected without the use of metabolic inhibitors at 6 to 8 h post infection. Transcription of early and late RNA was not restricted to any specific area of the genome. Eighty percent of the transcripts from both the HindIII A fragment, between map units 0.381 to 0.537 within the unique long segment, and the HindIII K fragment, between map units 0.840 to 0.907 of the unique short segment, were designated as belonging to the early class.
Abstract A psychrophilic fungal strain of Geomyces pannorum P15 was screened for its ability to utilize a range of synthetic and natural organophosphonate compounds as the sole source of phosphorus, nitrogen, or carbon. Only phosphonoacetic acid served as a phosphorus source for microbial growth in phosphate-independent manner. Substrate metabolism did not lead to extracellular release of inorganic phosphate. No phosphonate metabolizing enzyme activity was detectable in cell-free extracts prepared from Geomyces biomass pregrown on 2 mmol/L phosphonoacetic acid.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PA) can serve as a model substrate for studying the microbial cleavage of P-C bond. The hydrolysis of PA to acetate and inorganic phosphate is catalyzed by PA hydrolase. This enzyme, isolated and characterized from some bacterial strains, is highly specific for its substrate and is neither repressed nor inhibited by the presence of high inorganic phosphate (Pi) level (McMullan and Quinn 1994) . The protein from Pseudomonas fluorescens 23F is a Zn 2+ -dependent enzyme consisting of two identical subunits (McGrath et al. 1999 ). PA-hydrolase activity was also detected in cell-free extracts of two environmental isolates of Curtobacterium sp. and Pseudomonas spp.
3,4 The Michaelis-Arbuzov reaction of trialkyl phosphites and a-halogenoketones leads to b-ketophos- and reaction of silyl enol ethers with phosphite using a hypervalent iodine compound. 15 Recently, b-ketophosphonates have also been obtained by: a) acylation of in situ generated trimethylsilyl diethylphosphonoacetate using MgCl 2 /Et 3 N; 16 b) acylation of triethyl phosphonoacetate and diethyl phosphonoacetic acid via the Mg(OEt) 2 or MgCl 2 /Et 3 N system; 17 and c) reaction of a-halogenophosphonates with esters in the presence of a soluble Co(0) complex or magnesium.
Summary. Blot hybridization analysis of infected bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) cellular RNA isolated at various times post infection and after treatment with specific metabolic inhibitors was used to characterize transcription of the BHV-1 Cooper isolate. Synthesis of BHV-1 RNA was detected as early as 3 h post infection and reached a maximum at six to eight hours post infection. The most transcriptionally active area of the genome was between map units 0.110 to 0.195, within the HindIII I fragment. From the entire genome a total of 59 transcripts ranging in size from approximately 0.6 to 10 kilobases were characterized as belonging to one of three distinct classes. Using the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide, three immediate-early transcripts were identified as originating from the internal inverted repeat region between map units 0.734 and 0.842, corresponding to the HindIII D fragment. Using phosphonoacetic acid to prevent virus DNA synthesis by inhibition of the BHV-1 DNA polymerase, 28 early transcripts were recognized. The remaining 28 transcripts, classified as late RNA, were detected without the use of metabolic inhibitors at 6 to 8 h post infection. Transcription of early and late RNA was not restricted to any specific area of the genome. Eighty percent of the transcripts from both the HindIII A fragment, between map units 0.381 to 0.537 within the unique long segment, and the HindIII K fragment, between map units 0.840 to 0.907 of the unique short segment, were designated as belonging to the early class.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA polymerase was isolated on a large-scale from African green monkey kidney cells infected with HSV type 1 (HSV-1) strain Angelotti. After DNA-cellulose chromatography the enzyme showed a specific activity of 48,000 units/mg protein. Three major single polypeptides with molecular weights of 144,000, 74,000 and 29,000 were copurified with the enzyme activity at the DNA-cellulose ste. By its chromatographic behavior and by template studies, the HSV DNA polymerase activity was clearly distinguishable from cellular alpha, beta and gamma DNA polymerase activities. Two exonucleolytic activities were found in the DNA-cellulose enzyme preparation. The main exonucleolytic activity, which degraded both single-stranded and double-stranded DNA to deoxynucleoside 5'-monophosphates, was separated by subsequent velocity sedimentation. The remaining exonucleolytic activity was not separable from the HSV DNA polymerase by several chromatographic steps and by velocity sedimentation at high ionic strength. This novel exonuclease and HSV DNA polymerase were equally sensitive both to phosphonoacetic acid and Zn2+ ions, inhibitors of the viral polymerase. Similar to the 3'-to-5'-exonuclease of procaryotic DNA polymerases and mammalian DNA polymerase delta, the HSV-polymerase-associated exonuclease catalyzed the removal of 3'-terminal nucleotides from the primer/template as well as the template-dependent conversion of deoxynucleoside triphosphates to monophosphates.
Analysis of the DNA sequence arrangement and polypeptides specified by 28 HSV-1 x HSV-2 recombinants show the following: (i) Recombinants with heterogeneous L and S components or with heterogenous inverted repeats are viable. (ii) HSV-1 and HSV-2 genes appear to be functionally equivalent and with few exceptions co-linearly arranged. Co-linear DNA maps have been established. (iii) At most two arrangements of HSV DNA are capable of replication. This is consistant with current studies suggesting that sequence arrangements are the consequence of obligatory post-synthesis repair. (iv) alpha Polypeptides map at the termini of the L and S components of HSV DNA. Although alpha ICP 27 maps entirely within the reiterated region of the L component, the template for alpha ICP 4 may lie only in part within the reiterated sequences of the S component. Of note is the finding that cells infected with a recombinant that contains both HSV-1 and HSV-2 DNA sequences in the S component, produced alpha ICP 4 of both HSV-1 and HSV-2. (v) Templates specifying beta and gamma polypeptides may in the L component and appear to be randomly distributed. (vi) The genes specifying thymidine kinase, resistance to phosphonoacetic acid and syncytial plaque morphology mapped in the L component. In addition, we have taken advantage of the rapid inhibition of host protein synthesis to map the gene(s) specifying this inhibition in the L component.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant type 1 herpes simplex virus population was isolated by repeated passage of the virus in the presence of this inhibitor. Hairless mice infected percutaneously with the inhibitor-resistant or the parental inhibitor-susceptible virus were treated intraperitoneally with PAA and 9-β-d-arabinofuranosyl-adenine by using several different dosage schedules. Whereas 9-β-d-arabinofuranosyl-adenine was effective both in the PAA-susceptible and PAA-resistant herpes simplex virus-induced skin infection, PAA suppressed only the infection induced by the parental PAA-susceptible virus.
Virus-induced polypeptides in cells infected with varicella-zoster virus (VZV) were analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and autoradiography. When human embryonic lung (HEL) cells infected with the Oka strain of VZV were labelled with 35S-methionine or 14C-glucosamine from 40 hr to 46 hr after infection, at least 18 VZV-induced polypeptides and 10 glycoproteins could be identified in the infected cells. The molecular weights of the polypeptides and glycoproteins ranged from about 145,000 to 23,000, and from about 105,000 to 48,000, respectively. Lysates of VZV-infected cells were treated with specific antisera prepared in green monkeys or guinea-pigs, and analysed by SDS-PAGE and fluorography. In all, 33 polypeptides (with molecular weight of about 145,000 to 22,000) and 13 glycoproteins (molecular weight, about 105,000 to 38,000) were found in the immunoprecipitates. None of these polypeptides and glycoproteins were detected when infected cells cultured in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) were treated in the same way.
Abstract ::: The expression of Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1) glycoprotein C (gC), a well defined herpesvirus late gene, was studied by linking the promoter-regulatory region of this gene to the coding sequences for the bacterial enzyme, beta-galactosidase (beta-gal). A chimeric gene, containing the beta-gal gene under the control of gC sequences from -1350 to +30 relative to the mRNA start site, was inserted by homologous recombination into the thymidine kinase (TK) locus of the HSV-1 genome. Selection of the TK- recombinant virus by plaque assay was facilitated by addition of a beta-gal indicator to the agarose overlay. Recombinant virus containing the gC promoter-beta-gal chimeric gene faithfully expressed beta-gal as a viral late gene, as shown by the absence of beta-gal expression when viral DNA replication was inhibited with phosphonoacetic acid. In contrast, the inhibition of viral DNA replication had no effect on the expression of beta-gal when the beta-gal gene was under the control of the early HSV-1 TK promoter in a separate recombinant virus. Analysis of recombinant viruses containing 5' to 3' deletions in the gC regulatory region revealed no apparent difference in beta-gal expression as deletions extended from -1350 to -109 base-pairs (bp) before the RNA start site, demonstrating that sequences between -109 and +30 are sufficient for regulated gC expression in the viral genome. Analysis of the mRNA made by these recombinant viruses confirmed the results of the beta-gal assays, and demonstrated that the transcriptional start sites of the gC promoter-beta-gal chimeric genes were the same as the start site of the gC gene.
Abstract We have measured the spontaneous production of mutants in derivatives of herpes simplex virus type 1 resistant to phosphonoacetic acid. Six such derivatives produced 9- to 123-fold fewer iododeoxycytidine (ICdR)-resistant progeny (i.e., thymidine kinase deficient) than their wild-type parents. To locate the mutation which controls mutant production in one of the strains (PAA r -5), we constructed phosphonoacetic acid-resistant, recombinant viruses by marker transfer, using wild-type viral DNA and DNA restriction fragments conferring the resistance phenotype. The resultant recombinants also produced very low levels of ICdR-resistant progeny during growth, indicating a close linkage (within 1.1 kilobase pairs) between the drug resistance locus and the sequences controlling production of mutant progeny. Evidence is presented that the low mutant yield in PAA r -5 is not due to abnormal expression of mutants, hypersensitivity to WdR, altered thymidine kinase activity, or slow replication rates. Since the locus conferring resistance to phosphonoacetic acid in PAA r -5 has been shown previously to be the DNA polymerase gene, we hypothesize that the reduced yield of mutants results from enhanced replication fidelity by the altered DNA polymerase. The existence of antimutator derivatives of herpes simplex indicates that the observed high mutation rate for wild-type strains is an intrinsic property of the virus and may provide a selective advantage during growth in animal hosts.
Continuing our investigations on inhibitors of ribonucleotide reductase (RNR), the crucial enzyme that catalyses the reduction of ribonucleotides to deoxyribonucleotides, we have now prepared and evaluated 5'-phosphonoacetic acid, amide and ester analogues of adenosine, uridine and cytidine with the aim to verify both substrate specificity and contribution to biological activity of diphosphate mimic moieties. A molecular modelling study has been conducted on the RNR R1 subunit, in order to verify the possible interaction of the proposed bioisosteric moieties. The study compounds were finally tested on the recombinant murine RNR showing a degree of inhibition that ranged from 350 microM for the UDP analogue 5'-deoxy-5'-N-(phosphon-acetyl)uridine sodium salt (amide) to 600 microM for the CDP analogue 5'-O-[(diethyl-phosphon)acetyl]cytidine (ester). None of the tested compounds displayed noteworthy cytostatic activity at 100-500 microM concentrations, whereas ADP analogue 5'-N-[(diethyl-phosphon) acetyl]adenosine (amide) and 5'-deoxy-5'-N-(phosphon-acetyl)adenosine sodium salt (amide) showed a moderate inhibitory activity (EC50: 48 microM) against HSV-2 and a modest inhibitory activity (EC50: 110 microM) against HIV-1, respectively.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ORF30-33 locus encodes four genes with unknown functions. We performed transcriptional mapping of these genes. Northern-hybridization, 5'- and 3'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends, and DNA sequencing identified four transcripts of 3.7, 3.6, 2.7, and 1.4 kb, none of which has alternative splicing. While all transcripts have the same termination site, their start sites vary. All transcripts are not expressed or only weakly expressed in latent cells but can be chemically induced. The 3.7 and 3.6 kb transcripts contain all four genes and are sensitive to cycloheximide (CH) but resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), indicating that they are early lytic transcripts. The 2.7 kb transcript contains ORF32 and ORF33 genes while the 1.4 kb transcript contains the ORF33 gene. Both transcripts are sensitive to CH and PAA, indicating that they are late lytic transcripts. Furthermore, we identified four promoters with functional TATA boxes, none of which is directly transactivated by RTA. Examination of the 5' untranslated region of ORF31 failed to identify any functional internal ribosome entry sites. These results define the transcriptional patterns of the ORF30-33 locus, which should help the delineation of its function.
Summary ::: Hybridomas were formed between mouse myeloma cells and spleen cells from mice immunized with Marek's disease virus (MDV) or with herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT). Three monoclonal antibodies were obtained, two (M26 and M34) from MDV clones and one (H9) from an HVT clone, all of which were specific for cross-reactive membrane antigen (MA) expressed on the surface of cells infected with MDV or HVT. All three antibodies also reacted with MDV- and HVT-specific glycoproteins in the molecular weight (mol. wt.) ranges 54K to 70K (MDV-gp54/70) and 50K to 64K (HVT-gp50/64), respectively. These glycoproteins constitute the putative ‘A’ antigens which are found in the medium of cultures infected with MDV or HVT. These results suggest that the cross-reactive MA may correspond to ‘A’ antigen. Pulse-chase experiments using monoclonal antibodies revealed the presence in virus-infected cells of precursor and processed forms of MDV-gp54/70 and HVT-gp50/64 which differ in size. Moreover, by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis we found that MDV and HVT glycoproteins were separated to heterogeneous spots by electric charge as well as mol. wt. The several spots with higher mol. wt. and with more acidic isoelectric points among them were lost by treatment with neuraminidase, suggesting that the processing was, at least in part, due to the addition of sialic acid to the precursor forms. Tunicamycin blocked the surface expression of cross-reactive HVT-MA on HVT-infected cells. Phosphonoacetic acid inhibited both the appearance of HVT-MA on the cell surface and synthesis of HVT-gp50/64, indicating that the MA and secreted glycoprotein were late gene products of the HVT genome.
Hybridomas were formed between mouse myeloma ceils and spleen cells from mice immunized with Marek's disease virus (MDV) or with herpesvirus of turkeys (HVT). Three monoclonal antibodies were obtained, two (M26 and M34) from MDV clones and one (H9) from an HVT clone, all of which were specific for cross-reactive membrane antigen (MA) expressed on the surface of cells infected with MDV or HVT. All three antibodies also reacted with MDV-and HVT-specific glycoproteins in the molecular weight (mol. wt.) ranges 54K to 70K (MDV-gp54/70) and 50K to 64K (HVTgp50/64), respectively. These glycoproteins constitute the putative 'A' antigens which are found in the medium of cultures infected with MDV or HVT. These results suggest that the cross-reactive MA may correspond to 'A' antigen. Pulse-chase experiments using monoclonal antibodies revealed the presence in virus-infected cells of precursor and processed forms of MDV-gp54/70 and HVT-gp50/64 which differ in size. Moreover, by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis we found that MDV and HVT glycoproteins were separated to heterogeneous spots by electric charge as well as mol. wt. The several spots with higher mol. wt. and with more acidic isoelectric points among them were lost by treatment with neuraminidase, suggesting that the processing was, at least in part, due to the addition of sialic acid to the precursor forms. Tunicamycin blocked the surface expression of cross-reactive HVT-MA on HVTinfected cells. Phosphonoacetic acid inhibited both the appearance of HVT-MA on the cell surface and synthesis of HVT-gp50/64, indicating that the MA and secreted glycoprotein were late gene products of the HVT genome.
To describe structures and biological functions of targets for antibody-mediated immune responses to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-infected lymphoid cells, we have characterized a membrane-associated protein of 105,000 daltons, p105, which was prominently recognized in immunoprecipitates with some EBV antigen-reactive patients9 sera. A rabbit antiserum to immunopurified p105 was developed. [35S]methionine-labeled p105 was specific to EBV-superinfected Raji cells, and its synthesis was not blocked with phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that it is an "early" viral antigen. Phosphonoacetic acid treatment of EBV-superinfected Raji cells was associated with the accumulation, mainly in the cytosol, of an 88,000-dalton protein, p88, which was also recognized with anti-p105 serum, but was not detected in superinfected cells which had not been treated with phosphonoacetic acid. Although anti-p105 serum immunoprecipitated a membrane fraction protein, it did not neutralize P3HR-1 virus and was not considered to be an exposed virion component. We conclude that p105 is an early, EBV-induced, membrane fraction antigen to which EBV-infected patients generate a substantial antibody response. Images
The genes of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) can be divided into at least three temporally regulated groups termed immediate early (IE), early and late. We have studied in detail the expression of a member of the late class of genes, US11, which encodes a polypeptide of apparent molecular weight 21K. Highly specific and sensitive probes were used to monitor US11 RNA and protein synthesis during HSV-1 infection of tissue culture cells in the presence and absence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA replication. The results were compared with a similar study of the products of a delayed early gene, US6, encoding glycoprotein D (gD). It was found that the patterns of RNA and protein synthesis from US11 were significantly different to those of gD. US11 products appeared later and accumulated until late in infection, while gD RNA was significantly reduced at late times. In the presence of the inhibitor of DNA synthesis, US11 gene expression was reduced 50- to 100-fold while gD expression was reduced five- to tenfold. We conclude that US11 behaves as a true late gene during HSV-1 infection. However, the use of sensitive assays, which allowed the detection of very low levels of US11 gene products under conditions designed to eliminate DNA replication, brings into question the absolute requirement for DNA replication for the expression of a true late HSV-1 gene. These results are discussed in terms of current models for the regulation of late gene expression.
The genomic localization of two immunodominant genes encoding two proteins of the Epstein-Barr virus capsid antigen (VCA) complex, VCA-p18 and VCA-p40, has been identified. For that purpose, lambda gt11-based cDNA libraries were constructed from HH514.c16 cells induced for virus production. The libraries were screened with a monoclonal antibody, EBV.OT41A, directed against VCA-p40 or with affinity-purified human antibodies against VCA-p18. Sequencing of the inserts of positive plaques showed that VCA-p18 and VCA-p40 are encoded within open reading frames (ORFs) BFRF3 and BdRF1, respectively. Peptide scanning analysis of the predicted protein of ORF BdRF1 resulted in defining the epitope of monoclonal antibody EBV.OT41A at the C-terminal region. The dominant VCA-p18 reactivity of human sera can be completely inhibited by preadsorption with Escherichia coli-expressed BFRF3-beta-galactosidase. Serum of a rabbit immunized with BFRF3-beta galactosidase reacts with a VCA-specific protein of 18 kDa. In addition, BFRF3-beta-galactosidase affinity-purified antibodies react with VCA-p18 of virus-producing cells (HH514.c16). Complete inhibition of viral DNA polymerase activity by phosphonoacetic acid is associated with the absence of RNAs and protein products of both ORFs, indicating that VCA-p18 and VCA-p40 are true late antigens.
The ability of acycloguanosine H-phosphate to inhibit the reproduction of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) variants, including its acycloguanosine (acyclovir)-resistant ones, was studied. Acycloguanosine H-phosphate-resistant HSV-1 variants were obtained. It was found that these variants were cross-resistant to thymidine kinase-dependent HSV reproduction inhibitors, but preserved sensitivity to Apa-A and phosphonoacetic acid.
The genes of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) can be divided into at least three temporally regulated groups termed immediate early (IE), early and late. We have Studied in detail the expression of a member of the late class of genes, US11, which encodes a polypeptide of apparent molecular weight 21K. Highly specific and sensitive probes were used to monitor US1 t RNA and protein synthesis during HSV-1 infection of tissue culture cells in the presence and absence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA replication. The results were compared with a similar study of the products of a delayed early gene, US6, encoding glycoprotein D (gD). It was found that the patterns of RNA and protein synthesis from US11 were significantly different to those of gD. US11 products appeared later and accumulated until late in infection, while gD RNA was significantly reduced at late times. In the presence of the inhibitor of DNA synthesis, USll gene expression was reduced 50-to 100-fold while gD expression was reduced five-to tenfold. We conclude that US11 behaves as a true late gene during HSV-1 infection. However, the use of sensitive assays, which allowed the detection of very low levels of USI 1 gene products under conditions designed to eliminate DNA replication, brings into question the absolute requirement for DNA replication for the expression of a true late HSV-1 gene. These results are discussed in terms of current models for the regulation of late gene expression.
A complex which is active in in vitro synthesis of adeno-associated virus (AAV) DNA was solubilized from Vero cells that were co-infected with AAV and either adenovirus (Ad5) or a herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) as the helper virus. The complexes from the Ad5 and HSV-1-infected cells sedimented at 23 S and 28 S, respectively. The optimal conditions for in vitro DNA synthesis for the two types of complex using the endogenous AAV template and the endogenous DNA polymerase, differed with respect to the effect of KCl and K2SO4 concentration. In addition the complex from HSV-1-infected cells, but not that from Ad5-infected cells, was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid. Thus, the two complexes appear to contain different DNA polymerase activities. This was verified by phosphocellulose chromatography of the DNA polymerases solubilized from the isolated complexes. The major activity in the complex from HSV-1 infected cells was the HSV-induced DNA polymerase with lesser amounts of cellular DNA polymerase alpha and gamma or both. The complex from the Ad5-infected cells contained mainly a cellular DNA polymerase gamma.
The lytic gene expression of several members of the human herpesvirus family has been profiled by using gene-expression microarrays; however, the lytic cascade of roseoloviruses has not been studied in similar depth. Based on the complete DNA genome sequences of human herpesvirus 6 variant A (HHV-6A) and variant B (HHV-6B), we constructed a cDNA microarray containing DNA probes to their predicted open reading frames, plus 914 human genes. Gene-expression profiling of HHV-6B strain Z29 in SupT1 cells over a 60 h time-course post-infection, together with kinetic classification of the HHV-6B genes in the presence of either cycloheximide or phosphonoacetic acid, allowed the placement of HHV-6B genes into defined kinetic classes. Eighty-nine HHV-6B genes were divided into four different expression kinetic classes: eight immediate-early, 44 early, 33 late and four biphasic. Clustering of genes with similar expression profiles implied a shared function, thus revealing possible roles of previously uncharacterized HHV-6B genes.
A novel 3D homochiral manganese phosphonate with right-handed helical chains, [enH2]0.5Mn2[(HL)(L)] (1) (H3L = 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid; en = ethylenediamine) has been synthesized by hydrothermal techniques. X-Ray diffraction analysis indicates that compound 1 consists of A channels with right-handed single helical chains, B channels with right-handed double helical chains and C channels with achiral channels that are connected through manganese centers and L3− ligands to form a homochiral coordination polymer. Surface photovoltage spectroscopy (SPS) of compound 1 indicates that it possesses positive SPV response in the range of 300–600 nm and shows p-type semiconductor characteristic. Magnetic susceptibility studies of compounds 1 reveal that there exist weak antiferromagnetic interactions between the manganese centers.
Abstract ::: Herpesvirus saimiri has been shown to possess a thymidylate synthase (TS) gene that is unusual in its transcriptional regulation. Although TS is believed to be required for viral DNA synthesis, the TS-specific 2.5-kb mRNA was found most abundantly during the late phases of asynchronous virus replication in permissive cultures. To study the kinetics of gene activation, the TS promoter and regulatory sequences were cloned upstream of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene. No CAT expression or transcripts were found after transfection of fusion genes into permissive owl monkey kidney (OMK) cells. However, the promoter was strongly activated when CAT plasmids were cotransfected with intact herpesvirus saimiri virion DNA or were transferred to OMK cells that were lytically infected with herpesvirus saimiri or a related herpesvirus, herpesvirus ateles. CAT was expressed at reduced levels in cultures when viral DNA replication was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid; this indicates that the gene is activated during the delayed-early phase. However, the highest amounts of mRNA were present in the late period of replication. Deletion analyses localized essential response elements for trans activation in the promoter upstream region between nucleotides -311 and -56; they consisted of related tandem repeats and perfect palindromes. A sequence with two overlapping palindromes of 16 and 18 bp was found to be a major target for activation of the herpesvirus saimiri TS promoter. These palindromes did not have any significant homologies with known sequences of herpesviruses or cellular DNA; the 18-bp palindrome had, however, a certain structural similarity with a conserved sequence of the E2-responsive cis sequence that is required for transcription regulation of early papillomavirus genes.
Serum-starved human foreskin fibroblasts were infected by human cytomegalovirus (Towne strain) that is thought to induce DNA replication in host cells during lytic infection. At various times postinfection, the cultures were pulse labeled with either3H-thymidine or14C-thymidine and3H-lysine to examine DNA synthesis and histone synthesis, respectively. Isopycnic centrifugation of labeled DNA in CsCl revealed that precursor incorporation into host-cell DNA was enhanced over the control around 24 h postinfection and decreased after onset of viral DNA synthesis which reached a peak around 72 h postinfection. For analysis of histones3H-lysine-labeled proteins of lysates of unfractionated cells and of chromatin preparations were subjected to polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate and subsequent fluorography. Comparison of the fluorograms from the various pulses postinfection suggested that3H-lysine incorporation into histones exhibited no major variations concurrent with the changes of host-cell DNA synthesis. In contrast, herpes simplex virus type 1 was found progressively to extinguish histone synthesis in the course of the cellular infection. Furthermore, histone synthesis in phosphonoacetic acid-treated cytomegalovirus-infected cultures was not enhanced over that in mock-infected controls. These observations do not support the view that human cytomegalovirus induces host-cell DNA replication under the conditions used.
Abstract When human embryonic fibroblasts were infected with herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) at a multiplicity of 5 PFU/cell, repair replication of cellular DNA was detectable by 3–5 hr postinfection (p.i.). Between 12 and 14 hr p.i., predominantly repair replication of cellular DNA was noted but some repair and semiconservative replication of viral DNA occurred. Almost all DNA synthesis between 22 and 24 hr p.i. was derived from repair synthesis of cellular and viral DNA. Alkaline sucrose gradient sedimentation analysis revealed that cellular DNA of HSV-2-infected cells suffered extensive strand breaks by 14 hr p.i. Significant repair replication of cellular DNA was induced by HSV-2 even in the presence of 100 μg/ml of phosphonoacetic acid which inhibits viral DNA synthesis to undetectable levels. Repair replication of cellular and viral DNA was also detected in infected xeroderma pigmentosum (XP12BE) cells. The results suggest that HSV-2 induced repairable damage in cellular DNA without viral DNA replication and that native HSV-2 DNA which accumulated in the infected cells had a repairable structure (probably strand breaks) that did not require incision for repair.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibited the synthesis of herpes simplex virus DNA in infected cells and the activity of the virus-specific DNA polymerase in vitro. In the presence of concentrations of PAA sufficient to prevent virus growth and virus DNA synthesis, normal amounts of early virus proteins (alpha- and beta-groups) were made, but late virus proteins (gamma-group) were reduced to less than 15% of amounts made in untreated infected cells. This residual PAA-insensitive synthesis of gamma-polypeptides occurred early in the virus growth cycle when rates were identical in PAA-treated and untreated infected cells. Passage of virus in the presence of PAA resulted in selection of mutants resistant to the drug. Stable clones of mutant viruses with a range of drug sensitivities were isolated and the emergence of variants resistant to high concentrations of PAA involved the sequential selection of mutants progressively better adapted to growth in the presence of the drug. Increased drug resistance of virus yield or plaque formation was correlated with increased resistance of virus DNA synthesis, gamma-protein synthesis, and resistance of the virus DNA polymerase reaction in vitro to the inhibitory effects of the drug. PAA-resistant strains of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) complemented the growth of sensitive strains of homologous and heterologous types in mixed infections in the presence of the drug. Complementation was markedly dependent upon the proportions of the resistant and sensitive partners participating in the mixed infection. Intratypic (HSV-1A X HSV-1B) recombination of the PAA resistance marker(s), Pr, occurred at high frequency relative to plaque morphology (syn) and bromodeoxyuridine resistance (Br, thymidine kinase-negative phenotype) markers, with the most likely order being syn-Br-Pr. Recombinant viruses were as resistant or sensitive to PAA as the parental viruses, and viruses recombinant for their PAA resistance phenotype were also recombinant for the PAA resistance character of the virus DNA polymerase. The results provide additional evidence that the herpesvirus DNA polymerase is the site of action of PAA and illustrate the potential usefulness of PAA-resistant mutants in genetic studies of herpesviruses.
Publisher Summary ::: There are five major types of herpes virus known capable of inducing human diseases. Herpes viruses have been associated with many diseases, but there are no specific anti-herpes agents currently used in the clinic that lack toxicity to patients. To develop these agents and to know how to use these agents effectively, more of the biochemistry of herpes virus infected and uninfected cells are needed. It should be recognized that each type of herpes virus has their own unique set of biochemical parameters; however, they share some common entities that could be utilized for the development of antiherpes agents with wider spectrum. Herpes simplex virus resistant to thymidine analogs and that resistant to phosphonoacetic acid have already been isolated. Therefore, for the future treatment of herpes associated diseases, specific antiherpes agents that exert their actions independently should be developed and used in combination to avoid the complications of drug resistance through the mechanism of virus mutation.
BACKGROUND ::: Certain nucleoside, nucleotide and pyrophosphate analogues may be useful for treating severe complications arising as a result of virus dissemination following smallpox (live vaccinia virus) vaccinations, especially in immunocompromised individuals. We used an immunosuppressed hairless mouse model to study the effects of 10 antiviral agents on progressive vaccinia infections. ::: ::: ::: METHODS ::: Hairless mice were immunosuppressed by treatment with cyclophosphamide (100 mg/kg) every 4 days starting 1 day prior to vaccinia virus (WR strain) infection of wounded skin. Topical treatments with antiviral agents were applied twice a day for 7 days starting 5 days after virus exposure. ::: ::: ::: RESULTS ::: Topical 1% cidofovir cream treatment was effective in significantly reducing primary lesion severity and decreasing the number of satellite lesions. Topical 1% cyclic HPMPC and 1% phosphonoacetic acid were not quite as active as cidofovir. Ribavirin (5%) treatment reduced lesion severity and diminished the numbers of satellite lesions, but the mice died significantly sooner than placebos. 2-Amino-7-[(1,3,-dihydroxy-2-propoxy)methyl]purine (compound S2242; 1%) moderately reduced primary lesion sizes. Ineffective treatments included 5% arabinosyladenine, 1% arabinosylcytosine, 1% 5-chloro-arabinosylcytosine, 5% arabinosylhypoxanthine 5-monophosphate and 5% viramidine. ::: ::: ::: CONCLUSIONS ::: Of the compounds tested, topically applied cidofovir was the most effective treatment of cutaneous vaccinia virus infections in immunosuppressed mice. Topical treatment with cidofovir could be considered as an adjunct to intravenous drug therapy for serious infections.
Replication of herpes simplex virus in WI-38 cells was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, as measured by decreased virus cytopathogenic effect and incorporation of radiolabeled thymidine in virus-infected cells. The drug appeared to have no effect on adsorption, penetration, or release of the virus nor on the synthesis of ribonucleic acid or protein. It appeared to inhibit virus deoxyribonucleic acid synthesis.
Abstract A one pot simple procedure for the synthesis of β-keto phosphonates has been developed using the MgCl2/Et3N base system to generate the magnesium enolate of diethyl phosphonoacetic acid. This intermediate reacts with acid chlorides or imidazolides to give, after workup, the title compounds in good yields.
The lytic gene expression of several members of the human herpesvirus family has been profiled by using gene-expression microarrays; however, the lytic cascade of roseoloviruses has not been studied in similar depth. Based on the complete DNA genome sequences of human herpesvirus 6 variant A (HHV-6A) and variant B (HHV-6B), we constructed a cDNA microarray containing DNA probes to their predicted open reading frames, plus 914 human genes. Gene-expression profiling of HHV-6B strain Z29 in SupT1 cells over a 60 h time-course post-infection, together with kinetic classification of the HHV-6B genes in the presence of either cycloheximide or phosphonoacetic acid, allowed the placement of HHV-6B genes into defined kinetic classes. Eighty-nine HHV-6B genes were divided into four different expression kinetic classes: eight immediate-early, 44 early, 33 late and four biphasic. Clustering of genes with similar expression profiles implied a shared function, thus revealing possible roles of previously uncharacterized HHV-6B genes.
Supplementary methods, figures, tables and references are available with the online version of this paper. Virus infection. SupT1 cells (5610 6 cells) were suspended in HHV-6B (Z29) inoculum to give an m.o.i. of 0.5. After 1 h adsorption at 37 uC, cells were washed twice with PBS and resuspended in complete medium at a concentration of 5610 5 cells ml 21 . The infected cells were incubated in 5 % CO 2 at 37 uC and harvested at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 h p.i. For the classification of immediate-early (IE) genes, SupT1 cells were first treated with cycloheximide (CHX, 200 mg ml 21 ; Sigma) for 1 h prior to infection. The infection and subsequent incubation were carried out in the continual presence of CHX and the infected cells were harvested at 6 h p.i. For the classification of early (E) and late (L) genes, the infected cells were cultured in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA, 500 mg ml 21 ; Sigma) and harvested at 36 h p.i. All cells were lysed in TRIzol (Invitrogen), frozen immediately in liquid nitrogen and stored at 280 uC until RNA extraction.
Herpesvirus saimiri has been shown to possess a thymidylate synthase (TS) gene that is unusual in its transcriptional regulation. Although TS is believed to be required for viral DNA synthesis, the TS-specffic 2.5-kb mRNA was found most abundantly during the late phases of asynchronous virus replication in permissive cultures. To study the kinetics of gene activation, the TS promoter and regulatory sequences were cloned upstream of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene. No CAT expression or transcripts were found after transfection of fusion genes into permissive owl monkey kidney (OMK) cells. However, the promoter was strongly activated when CAT plasmids were cotransfected with intact herpesvirus saimiri virion DNA or were transferred to OMK cells that were lytically infected with herpesvirus saimiri or a related herpesvirus, herpesvirus ateles. CAT was expressed at reduced levels in cultures when viral DNA replication was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid; this indicates that the gene is activated during the delayed-early phase. However, the highest amounts of mRNA were present in the late period of replication. Deletion analyses localized essential response elements for trans activation in the promoter upstream region between nucleotides -311 and -56; they consisted of related tandem repeats and perfect palindromes. A sequence with two overlapping palindromes of 16 and 18 bp was found to be a major target for activation of the herpesvirus saimiri TS promoter. These palindromes did not have any significant homologies with known sequences of herpesviruses or cellular DNA; the 18-bp palindrome had, however, a certain structural similarity with a conserved sequence of the E2-responsive cis sequence that is required for transcription regulation of early papillomavirus genes.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) effectively inhibited herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) replication and the onset of virus DNA synthesis. A PAA-resistant (Pr) mutant of HVS was isolated which plaqued efficiently in the presence of concentrations of PAA sufficient to reduce the growth of wild-type virus to less than 0.02% of control values. In contrast, virus growth and DNA synthesis in cells infected with unselected strains of herpesvirus saimiri was highly resistant to concentrations of aphidicolin, an inhibitor of alpha-type polymerases, which completely inhibited the growth and DNA replication of uninfected cells. An increased level of DNA polymerase activity was induced in cells infected with herpesvirus saimiri. This HVS-induced DNA polymerase was more sensitive to PAA but more resistant to aphidicolin in vitro than the uninfected cell activity and could also be distinguished on the basis of its response to ionic strength (40 to 50 mM-ammonium sulphate for optimal activity versus 20 mM for the uninfected cell activity). Under suitable in vitro assay conditions, an increase in the PAA-resistance of the DNA polymerase induced by the HVS(Pr) mutant was demonstrated. Comparison of the effects of aphidicolin and PAA demonstrated that the former was a much more effective and rapid inhibitor of susceptible cell DNA synthesis in vivo. Taken together, these results demonstrate novel properties of a DNA polymerase activity in cells infected with herpesvirus saimiri and suggest that aphidicolin should provide a useful reagent to analyse the functions of this enzyme in productive and non-productive infections with the virus.
Mesoporous titanium phosphonate functionalized with –COOH was synthesized by a simple co-condensation process with the use of 2-phosphonoacetic acid and titanium tetrachloride under acid conditions. The obtained mesoporous materials show high surface area and large pore volume, which were supported by XRD, TEM, SEM and N2 adsorption analysis. The integrity of the organophosphonate groups were further characterized by FTIR and NMR. Palladium nanoparticles were successfully supported onto the materials combined with a metal adsorption–reduction procedure, showing high activity for the Suzuki reaction. Furthermore, the obtained catalyst can be recovered and reused without significant decrease in catalytic activity.
Abstract Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was evaluated as therapy for primary cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections in guinea pigs. Epilated areas of skin were inoculated with HSV type 1 and treated in a blind fashion with topical PAA 2% cream or placebo cream, the initial application varying from 3 to 84 hours after inoculation. PAA applied 3 hours after inoculation aborts clinical infection. Even when applied 84 hours after inoculation (12 hours after the appearance of clinical lesions), PAA reduces the severity of primary HSV infection, and thus may be suitable for the treatment of human HSV infections.
Phosphonoformic acid trisodium salt (PF), ethyl diethyl-phosphonoformate (Et-PF), phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), ethyl diethyl phosphonoacetate (Et PAA), ethyl diethyl-2-phosphonopropionate (Et-2-PPA) and ethyl diethyl-3-phosphonopropionate (Et-3-PPA) were tested as inhibitors of EBV virus capsid antigen (VCA) synthesis in B.95-8 cells by immunofluorescence. The most effective inhibitors were: PF, inhibition of 96.74 percent of VCA synthesis at a concentration of 500 microM and PAA, inhibition of 82.05 percent of VCA synthesis at a concentration of 250 microM. Much higher concentrations of the other compounds were needed for inhibition with lower efficiency. Synthesis of EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA) was not inhibited by PF or PAA. However, only PF and PAA inhibited the transformation of human cord blood lymphocytes (CBL) by EBV, as measured by 3H-thymidine uptake, even when added 24 hours after infection. The degree of inhibition of transformation correlated with the concentration. Complete inhibition of CBL transformation by EBV was achieved by 1,000 microM PF and 500 microM PAA, which were noncytotoxic. Removal of PAA from B.95-8 cells cultivated in the presence of high concentrations of PAA for 15 weeks restored VCA synthesis without full concomitant production of transforming EBV.
Abstract Acyclovir-resistant mutants arise under nonselective conditions at relatively high frequencies from recently cloned populations of herpes simplex virus (HSV). The vast majority of mutants isolated following selection for acyclovir-resistance are mutated in the thymidine kinase ( tk ) gene. These mutants vary considerably in their acyclovir-resistance and exhibit TK and acyclovir-phosphorylating activity reduced to varying degrees, indicating that they are mutated at different sites within the gene. Genetically, these mutants behave as alleles of a single locus and map physically to the HSV- tk gene. Two mutants selected for acyclovir-resistance carry mutations in the viral DNA polymerase ( pol ) gene. One, ACG r 4, is mutated in both the tk and pol genes, whereas the acyclovir-resistance phenotype of the other mutant, BW r , can be ascribed to a mutation in the pol gene alone. In addition, mutant PAA r 5—selected for resistance to the antiHSV drug phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)—is acyclovir-resistant due to a mutation in its pol gene. Phenotypically, the partially purified polymerases of these mutants exhibit altered susceptibility to acyclo-GTP compared with their wildtype counterparts. Genetically, these mutants behave as if linked to the PAA r marker of the pol gene. Thus, by both biochemical and genetic criteria, acyclovir-resistant mutants have been shown to be mutated in the HSV tk and/or pol genes. These criteria, generally applicable to studies of mutants resistant to any antiviral drug, are discussed critically. Our results indicate that, although all acyclovir-resistant mutants can be ascribed to mutations in either the tk or pol gene, these mutants display a variety of phenotypes including varying degrees of acyclovir-resistance and coresistance to other antiHSV drugs. The possible implications of these phenotypes for the clinical use of acyclovir are discussed.
Abstract Proton conductive inorganic–organic hybrid membranes were synthesized from 3-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane (GPTMS) and phosphonoacetic acid (PA) with various ratios by a sol–gel process. Self-standing, homogeneous, highly transparent membranes were synthesized. TG–DTA analyses indicated that these membranes were thermally stable up to 200 °C. The results of FT-IR and 13 C NMR revealed that phosphonic acid groups of PA were chemically bound to organosiloxane network as a result of reaction between PA and GPTMS. The leach out of phosphonic acid groups from GPTMS–PA to water was reduced compared with phosphoric acid groups from GPTMS–H 3 PO 4. The proton conductivity of the hybrid membranes increased with phosphonic acid content. The conductivity of GPTMS/PA with a 1/1.05 ratio at 130 °C was 8.7 × 10 −2 S cm −1 at 100% relative humidity (RH).
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) effectively inhibited herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) replication and the onset of virus DNA synthesis. A PAA-resistant (pr) mutant of HVS was isolated which plaqued efficiently in the presence of concentrations of PAA sufficient to reduce the growth of wild-type virus to < 0-02~ of control values. In contrast, virus growth and DNA synthesis in cells infected with unselected strains of herpesvirus saimiri was highly resistant to concentrations of aphidicolin, an inhibitor of a-type polymerases, which completely inhibited the growth and DNA replication of uninfected cells. An increased level of DNA polymerase activity was induced in cells infected with herpesvirus saimiri. This HVS-induced DNA polymerase was more sensitive to PAA but more resistant to aphidicolin in vitro than the uninfected cell activity and could also be distinguished on the basis of its response to ionic strength (40 to 50 raM-ammonium sulphate for optimal activity versus 20 mM for the uninfected cell activity). Under suitable in vitro assay conditions, an increase in the PAA-resistance of the DNA polymerase induced by the HVS(P0 mutant was demonstrated. Comparison of the effects of aphidicolin and PAA demonstrated that the former was a much more effective and rapid inhibitor of susceptible cell DNA synthesis in vivo. Taken together, these results demonstrate novel properties of a DNA polymerase activity in cells infected with herpesvirus saimiri and suggest that aphidicolin should provide a useful reagent to analyse the functions of this enzyme in productive and non-productive infections with the virus.
Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6)-specific monoclonal antibody (Mab) 9A5D12 reacted with the nucleus of HHV-6 strain GS-infected cells and immunoprecipitated a phosphorylated polypeptide with an approximate size of 41 kDa, designated HHV-6 P41. A 110-kDa polypeptide was also immunoprecipitated by the MAb. These polypeptides were synthesized early in infection, and the synthesis was greatly reduced by phosphonoacetic acid. Polypeptides with identical sizes were recognized by the MAb from cells infected with an additional eight HHV-6 strains. A 2.1-kb cDNA insert was identified from an HHV-6(GS) cDNA library constructed in the lambda gt11 expression system by using MAb 9A5D12. This cDNA insert hybridized specifically with viral DNA from HHV-6 strains GS and Z-29 and with two predominant transcripts with approximate sizes of 2.5 and 1.2 kb from infected cells. The reactivity of the MAb with a fusion protein expressed in the prokaryotic vector suggested that the cDNA encodes a 62- to 66-kDa protein. Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA insert revealed a 623-amino-acid-residue single open reading frame of 1,871 nucleotides, with an open 5' end. The predicted polypeptide is highly basic and contains a long stretch of highly hydrophobic residues localized to the carboxy terminus. The amino-terminal half of the predicted HHV-6 protein from the cDNA shows significant homology with the UL44 gene product of human cytomegalovirus, coding for the ICP36 family of early-late-class phosphoproteins. Two TATA boxes are located at nucleotide positions 668 and 722 of the cDNA. In vitro translation of RNA transcribed in vitro from the cDNA resulted in the synthesis of a 41-kDa polypeptide only. This polypeptide was readily immunoprecipitated by MAb 9A5D12, and its partial peptide map was identical to that of the 41-kDa polypeptide detected in infected cells. Together, these results indicate that the HHV-6 P41 is encoded within a gene coding for a larger protein.
Infection of permissive cells, in tissue culture, with herpes simplex virus (HSV) has been reported to induce host DNA damage repair responses that are necessary for efficient viral replication. However, direct repair of the damaged viral DNA has not, to our knowledge, been shown. In this report, we detect and determine the amount of damaged HSV-1 DNA, following introduction of experimentally damaged HSV genomes into tissue cultures of permissive Vero, NGF differentiated PC12 cells and primary rat neurons, using a method of detection introduced here. The results show that HSV-1 strain 17 DNA containing UV-induced DNA damage is efficiently repaired, in Vero, but not NGF differentiated PC12 cells. The primary rat neuronal cultures were capable of repairing the damaged viral DNA, but with much less efficiency than did the permissive Vero cells. Moreover, by conducting the experiments with either an inhibitor of the HSV polymerase (phosphonoacetic acid [PAA]) or with a replication defective DNA polymerase mutant virus, HP66, the results suggest that repair can occur in the absence of a functional viral polymerase, although polymerase function seems to enhance the efficiency of the repair, in a replication independent manner. The possible significance of varying cell type mediated repair of viral DNA to viral pathogenesis is discussed.
NK cells, purified from spleens by DX5 microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec), were defined as NK1.1 ϩ CD3 Ϫ cells. NK cytolytic activity was assessed against 51 Cr-labeled YAC-1 lymphoma cells. 5 CD8 ϩ and CD4 ϩ T cells were isolated from spleens by positive selection using magnetic-activated cell sorting (MACS) enrichment kits (Miltenyi Biotec). The purity of enriched samples was more than 90%. T-cell cytolytic activity was assessed on 51 Cr-labeled, IFN-␥-treated MEF cells as described. 39 Cells were infected with 50 PFU virus for 16 hours in the presence of 300 mg/mL phosphonoacetic acid to prevent L gene expression.
Abstract Infection of permissive cells, in tissue culture, with herpes simplex virus (HSV) has been reported to induce host DNA damage repair responses that are necessary for efficient viral replication. However, direct repair of the damaged viral DNA has not, to our knowledge, been shown. In this report, we detect and determine the amount of damaged HSV-1 DNA, following introduction of experimentally damaged HSV genomes into tissue cultures of permissive Vero, NGF differentiated PC12 cells and primary rat neurons, using a method of detection introduced here. The results show that HSV-1 strain 17 DNA containing UVinduced DNA damage is efficiently repaired, in Vero, but not NGF differentiated PC12 cells. The primary rat neuronal cultures were capable of repairing the damaged viral DNA, but with much less efficiency than did the permissive Vero cells. Moreover, by conducting the experiments with either an inhibitor of the HSV polymerase (phosphonoacetic acid [PAA]) or with a replication defective DNA polymerase mutant virus, HP66, the results suggest that repair can occur in the absence of a functional viral polymerase, although polymerase function seems to enhance the efficiency of the repair, in a replication independent manner. The possible significance of varying cell type mediated repair of viral DNA to viral pathogenesis is discussed.
The tegument phosphoproteins of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) elicit cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses and are hence candidates for subunit vaccine development. Little is known, however, about the tegument proteins of nonhuman cytomegaloviruses, such as guinea pig CMV (GPCMV). DNA sequence analysis of the Eco R I “C” fragment of the GPCMV genome identified an open reading frame (ORF) which is colinear with that of the HCMV tegument phosphoprotein, UL83 (pp65). This ORF was found to have identity to HCMV UL83 and was predicted to encode a 565-amino-acid (aa) protein with a molecular mass of 62.3 kDa. Transcriptional analyses revealed that a GPCMV UL83 probe hybridized with both 2.2 kb and 4.2 kb mRNA species at 48 h post-infection (p.i.); synthesis of these messages was blocked by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), defining these as “late” gene transcripts. In vitro translation of the UL83 ORF in reticulocyte lysate resulted in synthesis of a 65 kDa protein. Immunofluorescence experiments revealed that the putative GPCMV UL83 homolog exhibited a predominantly nuclear localization pattern. Polyclonal antisera were raised against a UL83/glutathione-S-transferase (GST) fusion protein. This antibody identified a 70-kDa virion-associated protein, the putative GPCMV UL83 homolog, in immunoblot and radioimmunoprecipitation experiments. Labeling experiments with 32P-orthophosphate indicated that the GPCMV UL83 protein is phosphorylated. Western blot analysis of glycerol tartrate gradient-purified virions and dense bodies confirmed that the putative GPCMV UL83 homolog was a constituent of both fractions.
Abstract The expression of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-induced membrane antigen (MA) in Raji cells experimentally infected with EBV concentrates was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) as determined by membrane immunofluorescence and inhibition of antibody-dependent lymphocyte cytotoxicity. PAA was only effective if present during the first 24 hr following virus adsorption, indicating that the synthesis of MA was primarily a late viral gene function requiring viral DNA synthesis.
Several other polymerase inhibitors have been useful for isolating mutants from HSV-1 which affect substrate recognition. These inhibitors include substrate analogs with altered ribose rings [e.g., acycloguanosine, arabinosyladenine (araA), and 9-(1,3-dihydroxy-2-propoxymethyl)guanine (DHPG)] and phosphonoacetic acid. The analogs are phosphorylated in herpesvirus-infected cells. Once utilized by the polymerase as substrates, they inhibit further replication (2-4, 20). Since these analogs mimic normal substrates, mutants with altered sensitivity to these compounds appear to carry changes which affect substrate recognition. Phosphonoacetic acid has also been used to isolate substrate-specificity mutants, since mutants resistant to this drug also exhibit altered sensitivity to the substrate analogs (8, 15 virus sequentially in increasing concentrations of aphidicolin. TC7 cells (11) were inoculated with the KOS strain of HSV-1 at 0.1 PFU per cell in the presence of 0.12 jg of drug per ml. Plaque-purified stocks (11) were used to assure independent isolation of mutants from different infections. Progeny virus were then grown sequentially in 0.25, 0.5, and 0.6 jig of aphidicolin per ml. Drug-resistant plaques were selected and plaque purified in the absence of drug. Mutants Aph'-10 and Aph'-12 were isolated from the same stock, but both were studied since they exhibit different phenotypes. Mutants Aphr14 and Aphr16 were isolated from separate stocks.
The concentration formation constants of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) complexes with the Ca2+ and Mg2+ ions were determined in aqueous solution at 25°C by potentiometric and coulometric titrations at different ionic strengths and were extrapolated to I=0 in order to obtain thermodynamic values of the formation constants. Complexes were formed by the completely deprotonated Kf (ML) and monoprotonated Kf (MHL) forms of the PAA anion. The respective values for the complexes are: log Kf (CaL)=4.68±0.03, log Kf (CaHL)=2.61±0.08; log Kf (MgL)=5.58±0.09, log Kf (MgHL)=3.0±0.3. The enthalpy and entropy of complexation for the deprotonated Ca2+ and Mg2+ PAA species, determined from the temperature dependence of the log Kf (ML), are: ΔH0(Ca) =0.6±0.2 kcal-mol−1, ΔS0(Ca)=21.4±0.6 cal-mol−1-K−1, ΔH0(Mg)=3.0±0.7 kcal-mol−1, and ΔS0(Mg)=35±2 cal-mol−1-K−1. It is seen there-fore, that the complexes are entropy stabilized but enthalpy destabilized. Formation constants were also determined for Ca2+ and Mg2+ complexes with PAA analogs, phosphonoformic and 3-phosphonopropionic acids and the complexation of PAA was also studied at a single ionic strength, with Na+, Ag+, Tl+, Sr2+, Ba2+, Cd2+, Cu2+, and Pb2+ ions.
Cell cytotoxicity, inhibition of synthesis of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) viral capsid antigen (VCA), nuclear antigen (EBNA) and transformation of human cord blood lymphocytes (CBL) by EBV, were studied using the disodium salt of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), ethyl diethyl-phosphonoacetate (Et-PAA) and two derivatives of phosphonopropionic acid: ethyl diethyl-2-phosphonopropionate (Et-2-PPA) and ethyl diethyl-3-phosphonopropionate (Et-3-PPA). These substances were tested on EBV producing cell lines, B.95-8 and P3HR1. VCA and EBNA synthesis were determined by immunofluorescence and transformation of CBL by 3H-thymidine uptake. Up to 100 micrograms/ml of PAA were not toxic to 2.10(5) cells. Et-PAA, Et-2-PPA and Et-3-PPA were nontoxic at concentrations up to 2000 micrograms/ml. PAA inhibited 82.05% of EBV VCA synthesis at a concentration of 50 micrograms/ml. Et-PAA inhibited 47.01% of VCA at a concentration of 100 micrograms/ml and 78.09% at a concentration of 2000 micrograms/ml. Et-2-PPA inhibited 41.04% of VCA at 100 micrograms/ml and 80.87% when used at 2000 micrograms/ml. Et-3-PPA inhibited 35.06% of VCA at 100 micrograms/ml and 69.92% at 2000 micrograms/ml. Removal of the substances restored VCA synthesis. EBNA synthesis was not affected by these substances. PAA completely inhibited the transformation of human CBL by EBV at a concentration of 100 micrograms/ml. Et-PAA at a concentration of 2000 micrograms/ml completely inhibited 3H-thymidine uptake. ET-2-PPA was less effective whereas Et-3-PPA had almost no effects at the same concentration.
IFI16 (interferon gamma-inducible protein 16) recognizes nuclear episomal herpesvirus (Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus [KSHV], Epstein-Barr virus [EBV], and herpes simplex virus 1 [HSV-1]) genomes and induces the inflammasome and interferon beta responses. It also acts as a lytic replication restriction factor and inhibits viral DNA replication (human cytomegalovirus [HCMV] and human papillomavirus [HPV]) and transcription (HSV-1, HCMV, and HPV) through epigenetic modifications of the viral genomes. To date, the role of IFI16 in the biology of latent viruses is not known. Here, we demonstrate that knockdown of IFI16 in the latently KSHV-infected B-lymphoma BCBL-1 and BC-3 cell lines results in lytic reactivation and increases in levels of KSHV lytic transcripts, proteins, and viral genome replication. Similar results were also observed during KSHV lytic cycle induction in TREX-BCBL-1 cells with the doxycycline-inducible lytic cycle switch replication and transcription activator (RTA) gene. Overexpression of IFI16 reduced lytic gene induction by the chemical agent 12-O-tetradecoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). IFI16 protein levels were significantly reduced or absent in TPA- or doxycycline-induced cells expressing lytic KSHV proteins. IFI16 is polyubiquitinated and degraded via the proteasomal pathway. The degradation of IFI16 was absent in phosphonoacetic acid-treated cells, which blocks KSHV DNA replication and, consequently, late lytic gene expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays of BCBL-1 and BC-3 cells demonstrated that IFI16 binds to KSHV gene promoters. Uninfected epithelial SLK and osteosarcoma U2OS cells transfected with KSHV luciferase promoter constructs confirmed that IFI16 functions as a transcriptional repressor. These results reveal that KSHV utilizes the innate immune nuclear DNA sensor IFI16 to maintain its latency and repression of lytic transcripts, and a late lytic KSHV gene product(s) targets IFI16 for degradation during lytic reactivation.Like all herpesviruses, latency is an integral part of the life cycle of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), an etiological agent for many human cancers. Herpesviruses utilize viral and host factors to successfully evade the host immune system to maintain latency. Reactivation is a complex event where the latent episomal viral genome springs back to active transcription of lytic cycle genes. Our studies reveal that KSHV has evolved to utilize the innate immune sensor IFI16 to keep lytic cycle transcription in dormancy. We demonstrate that IFI16 binds to the lytic gene promoter, acts as a transcriptional repressor, and thereby helps to maintain latency. We also discovered that during the late stage of lytic replication, KSHV selectively degrades IFI16, thus relieving transcriptional repression. This is the first report to demonstrate the role of IFI16 in latency maintenance of a herpesvirus, and further understanding will lead to the development of strategies to eliminate latent infection.
Foscarnet and (-)9-[4-hydroxy-2-(hydroxymethyl)butyl] guanine (H2G) have already been shown to inhibit herpesviruses in vitro and also to inhibit viral antigen production in primary SIV infection in monkeys. Attempts have been made to determine if these invivo effects on SIV were due to a direct effect on SIV or were mediated through inhibition of endogenous transactivating herpesviruses. The possible involvement of herpesviruses in primary SIVsm infection in monkeys was studied by the use of various inhibitors of herpesvirus replication. Subcutaneous injections of 3 × 5 mg kg−1 day−1 of aciclovir, 3 × 5 mg kg−1 day−1 of ganciclovir and 3 × 28 mg kg−1 day−1 of phosphonoacetic acid had no effect on primary SIVsm infection in cynomolgus monkeys. These doses of aciclovir, ganciclovir and phosphonoacetic acid are inhibitory to several herpesviruses. The results suggest that the effects of foscarnet and H2G on primary SIVsm infection in monkeys are direct and not mediated through inhibition of a replicating he...
Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) replicates in quiescent T cells, neurons, and skin cells. In cultured fibroblasts (HFFs), VZV induces host cyclin expression and cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) activity without causing cell cycle progression. CDK1/cyclin B1 phosphorylates the major viral transactivator, and the CDK inhibitor roscovitine prevents VZV mRNA transcription. We investigated the antiviral effects of additional compounds that target CDKs or other cell cycle enzymes in culture, ex vivo, and in vivo. Cytotoxicity and cell growth arrest doses were determined by Neutral Red assay. Antiviral effects were evaluated in HFFs by plaque assay, genome copy number, and bioluminescence. Positive controls were acyclovir (400 microM) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA, 1 mM). Test compounds were roscovitine, aloisine A, and purvalanol A (CDK inhibitors), aphidicolin (inhibits human and herpesvirus DNA polymerase), l-mimosine (indirectly inhibits human DNA polymerase), and DRB (inhibits casein kinase 2). All had antiviral effects below the concentrations required for cell growth arrest. Compounds were tested in skin organ culture at EC(99) doses; all prevented VZV replication in skin, except for aloisine A and purvalanol A. In SCID mice with skin xenografts, roscovitine (0.7 mg/kg/day) was as effective as PAA (36 mg/kg/day). The screening systems described here are useful models for evaluating novel antiviral drugs for VZV.
Freshly isolated or overnight cultured bovine peripheral blood mononuclear (PBM) cells lysed bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV-1)-infected allogeneic and xenogeneic target cells but not non-infected target cells. To determine if late viral genes contribute to target cell lysis, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), an inhibitor of DNA polymerase activity, was used to block DNA replication that is required for expression of late viral proteins. Both adherent and non-adherent (NA) cell populations mediated lysis against PAA-treated BHV-1-infected target cells in both 4- and 20-hr assays, indicating recognition and killing occurred in the absence of expression of late BHV-1 glycoproteins. Thus recognition of BHV-1 by bovine natural cytolytic effector cells does not require recognition of late BHV-1 glycoproteins for killing virally infected target cells.
Sera from a patient with a chronic Epstein Barr virus (EBV) infection contained unusually high anti-EBV antibody titers (1:2560 to 1:10,240 for EA(D) and 1:5,120 to 1:40,960 for VCA). One of these serum samples was shown by immunoprecipitation to recognize at least 11 EBV-specific proteins from virus producer cells labeled in vivo and 10 EBV-specific proteins from in vitro translations of producer cell mRNA. Six of the in vivo labeled proteins (135,000, 89,000, 50,000 to 55,000 doublet, 46,000, and 34,000 daltons) are "early" by their resistance to phosphonoacetic acid, and five (350,000, 220,000, 160,000, 140,000, and 85,000 daltons) are "late" membrane and capsid proteins. The EBV-specific proteins immunoprecipitated from in vitro translations had molecular masses of 150,000, 140,000, 115,000, 52,000, 50,000, 45,000, 34,000, 29,000, 17,000, and 15,000. Subcellular fractionation studies of cells labeled in vivo revealed that the 135,000-dalton protein and part of the 50,000 to 55,000 dalton protein doublet were found in both the nuclear and the cytoplasmic fractions, and thus are good candidates to be components of the EA(D) diffuse-type immunofluorescence observed with many EA-positive sera.
PURPOSE: To provide a selective herbicide for stalk and leaf application, effective to true grasses without damaging vegetables such as tamato, cucumber, etc., containing an α-aminophosphonoalkanoic acid as an effective component. CONSTITUTION: A selective herbicide containing an α-aminophosphonoalkanoic acid of formula (n is 0,1,2), e.g. α-aminophosphonoacetic acid, as an effective component. COPYRIGHT: (C)1979,JPO&Japio
The products, RNA or proteins, of the herpes simplex virus 1 open reading frame U(L)43 have not been previously identified. The expression of an open reading frame antisense to U(L)43, U(L)43.5 (P. L. Ward, D. E. Barker, and B. Roizman, J. Virol. 70:2684-2690, 1996), has been reported. We report the existence of a transcript corresponding to the domain of the U(L)43 open reading frame extending approximately 30 bp from the predicted TATA box to the predicted polyadenylation signal. The RNA of the U(L)43 open reading frame accumulates to higher levels in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA synthesis, than in its absence, whereas the U(L)43.5 transcript accumulates in larger amounts in the absence of phosphonoacetic acid. The open reading frame tagged with a sequence encoding a 20-amino-acid epitope yielded a protein with an apparent Mr of 32,000, i.e., considerably lower than that predicted from the size of the open reading frame. The discovery of a pair of antisense genes expressed during productive infection raises the possibilities that additional antisense genes exist and that the antisense arrangement provides still another mechanism for regulation of gene expression.
During DNA replication, DNA polymerases alternate between DNA synthesis and proofreading the newly synthesized DNA. In order to understand the molecular details of how DNA polymerases determine the balance between polymerase and proofreading activities, it would be useful to have mutants which switch between the two activities either more or less frequently. Antimutator DNA polymerases switch more frequently and thus have more opportunity for proofreading. We have observed that mutant DNA polymerases which proofread less frequently have a mutator phenotype and are inhibited by the pyrophosphate analogue phosphonoacetic acid. Sensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid can be used to isolate second-site suppressor mutations. These suppressor mutations encode amino acid substitutions which produce antimutator DNA polymerases.
In this paper, the synthesis of new phosphonoacetic acid derivatives and their applications in fields of biotechnological interest are discussed. Phosphonoacetic acids are competitive inhibitors of alkaline phosphatase, an enzyme widely used in diagnostics, as colorimetric detection tool. The phosphonoacetic acid's inhibition activity has been exploited by us for the obtainment of an innovative technique for non-radioactive DNA probes detection, the last being based on DNA labeling with the enzyme inhibitor, followed by detection by means of the chromogenic enzyme and substrate. Moreover, we have found a further application of phosphonoacetic acids, by the preparation of an affinity chromatography support that has been revealed to be very effective in the purification of alkaline phosphatase. Finally, phosphonoacetic acid derivatives have been tested also for their antiviral activity. Some of them, examined in preliminary in vitro experiments, have been found very active against Herpes simplex virus.
Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) genome replication requires host DNA damage responses (DDRs) and raises the possibility that DNA repair pathways may influence viral replication. We report here that a nucleotide excision repair (NER)-associated-factor is required for efficient HCMV DNA replication. Mutations in genes encoding NER factors are associated with xeroderma pigmentosum (XP). One of the XP complementation groups, XPE, involves mutation in ddb2, which encodes DNA damage binding protein 2 (DDB2). Infectious progeny virus production was reduced by >2 logs in XPE fibroblasts compared to levels in normal fibroblasts. The levels of immediate early (IE) (IE2), early (E) (pp65), and early/late (E/L) (gB55) proteins were decreased in XPE cells. These replication defects were rescued by infection with a retrovirus expressing DDB2 cDNA. Similar patterns of reduced viral gene expression and progeny virus production were also observed in normal fibroblasts that were depleted for DDB2 by RNA interference (RNAi). Mature replication compartments (RCs) were nearly absent in XPE cells, and there were 1.5- to 2.0-log reductions in viral DNA loads in infected XPE cells relative to those in normal fibroblasts. The expression of viral genes (UL122, UL44, UL54, UL55, and UL84) affected by DDB2 status was also sensitive to a viral DNA replication inhibitor, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), suggesting that DDB2 affects gene expression upstream of or events associated with the initiation of DNA replication. Finally, a novel, infection-associated feedback loop between DDB2 and ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) was observed in infected cells. Together, these results demonstrate that DDB2 and a DDB2-ATM feedback loop influence HCMV replication.
The SalI-L fragment from human herpesvirus 6A (HHV-6A) encodes a protein DR7 that has been reported to produce fibrosarcomas when injected into nude mice, to transform NIH3T3 cells, and to interact with and inhibit the function of p53. The homologous gene in HHV-6B is dr6. Since p53 is deregulated in both HHV-6A and -6B, we characterized the expression of dr6 mRNA and the localization of the translated protein during HHV-6B infection of HCT116 cells. Expression of mRNA from dr6 was inhibited by cycloheximide and partly by phosphonoacetic acid, a known characteristic of herpesvirus early/late genes. DR6 could be detected as a nuclear protein at 24 hpi and accumulated to high levels at 48 and 72 hpi. DR6 located in dots resembling viral replication compartments. Furthermore, a novel interaction between DR6 and the viral DNA processivity factor, p41, could be detected by confocal microscopy and by co-immunoprecipitation analysis. In contrast, DR6 and p53 were found at distinct subcellular locations. Together, our data imply a novel function of DR6 during HHV-6B replication.
The SalI-L fragment from human herpesvirus 6A (HHV-6A) encodes a protein DR7 that has been reported to produce fibrosarcomas when injected into nude mice, to transform NIH3T3 cells, and to interact with and inhibit the function of p53. The homologous gene in HHV-6B is dr6. Since p53 is deregulated in both HHV-6A and -6B, we characterized the expression of dr6 mRNA and the localization of the translated protein during HHV-6B infection of HCT116 cells. Expression of mRNA from dr6 was inhibited by cycloheximide and partly by phosphonoacetic acid, a known characteristic of herpesvirus early/ late genes. DR6 could be detected as a nuclear protein at 24 hpi and accumulated to high levels at 48 and 72 hpi. DR6 located in dots resembling viral replication compartments. Furthermore, a novel interaction between DR6 and the viral DNA processivity factor, p41, could be detected by confocal microscopy and by co-immunoprecipitation analysis. In contrast, DR6 and p53 were found at distinct subcellular locations. Together, our data imply a novel function of DR6 during HHV-6B replication.
Previous experiments using gene transfer of plasmids with heterologous promoters identified an Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) gene (BZLF1) whose product (ZEBRA) switches the virus from a latent to a replicative state. We have now studied expression of ZEBRA in lymphoid cells harboring either standard virus or a mixture of standard and defective (heterogeneous [het]) viruses. A high-titer rabbit antiserum to a TrpE-BZLF1 fusion protein was used to identify ZEBRA expressed from standard and het EBV DNA. These ZEBRA proteins could be distinguished from each other on the basis of their electrophoretic mobilities. ZEBRA could not be detected in cells latently infected with standard EBV. However, within 6 h after induction of replication by sodium butyrate, ZEBRA appeared and persisted long thereafter. Synthesis of ZEBRA was insensitive to phosphonoacetic acid or acycloguanosine, behavior characteristic of an early replicative protein. ZEBRA was constitutively expressed in cells containing both defective and standard EBV genomes. ZEBRA was made predominantly from the het genome but also from the standard genome. Control of BZLF1 expression appears to occur at the transcriptional level. No BZLF1-specific transcript was detected in cells containing only standard latent EBV. BZLF1 transcripts could be detected in these cells if virus replication was induced by treatment with butyrate. Cells bearing both standard and het genomes did not require addition of an exogenous inducing agent to transcribe the BZLF1 gene. The experiments suggest that regulation of transcription of the BZLF1 gene is a pivotal event in the control of EBV replication.
The antiviral efficacy of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was studied in localized skin lesions of rabbits produced by the intradermal inoculation of vaccinia virus (VV) and of Shope fibroma virus (SFV). Systemic administration of PAA by intraperitoneal injections had no significant effect on the pustular lesions induced by VV or on the benign skin tumors caused by SFV. A complete suppression of the appearance of VV-induced pustular lesions was achieved by 2% PAA ointment applied twice daily for 4 days, starting 24 hr after virus inoculation. A significant effect against SFV-induced tumors was obtained by PAA ointment applied beginning either 24 or 72 hr after virus inoculation. A complete suppression of SFV-induced tumors was observed when a dose of 10 mg PAA was injected intralesionally once daily for 5 days, beginning treatment 24 hr after virus inoculation. A significant reduction of the intensity of the tumors was seen following the same treatment schedule but with a delay of 72 hr after virus inoculation or by reducing the length of treatment to 3 days or with a dose of 1 mg injected intradermally daily for 5 days. After the healing of the lesions, PAA-treated rabbits were resistant to reinfections to the same extent as those in which spontaneous healing had occurred.
Theimmunomodulator pyranmarkedly protected 5-week-old micefromlethal intravenous infection withherpes simplex virus type2.The50%lethal dose was increased almost 100-fold inpyran-treated miceas compared withcontrols. Although theprotection was notasmarkedinolder mice(10and16weeksold), there was asignificant increase inmean survival time. Whenthepathogenesis ofherpesvirus disease was monitored incontrol anddrug-treated mice, theeffect ofpyranwas mostevident inthespinal cord, wherevirus was recovered from20 of25control miceandfromonly6of25pyran-treated mice. There was also a significant reduction inthetiter ofviruspresent, andvirus appeared later inthe spinal cordofpyran-treated micethanincontrol mice. Theprotective effect of pyran was observed onlywhenthedrugwas administered 24hbefore viral challenge, was seenafter bothintraperitoneal andintravenous injection, and was notduetodirect inactivation ofthevirus. Adequate antiviral chemotherapy isnot available forherpesvirus infections suchas herpes encephalitis, herpes zoster, orherpes labialis orgenitalis. Theresults ofrecent clinicalinvestigations withadenine arabinoside andphosphonoacetic acid havebeenequivocal (T.C.Merigan [ed.], J.Infect. Dis., inpress). Incertain clinical situations, treatment with related antiviral chemotherapeutic agents such asiododeoxyuridine (8), cytosine arabinoside (31), orneutral red(26) hasproduced adverse effects interms ofunacceptable toxicity orexacerbation oftheviral disease itself. Analternate oradjuvant approach tothecontrol ofherpesvirusinfections might betheuseofimmunomodulators. Therapy withimmunomodulators as adjuvants withsurgery orchemotherapy has proven moreeffective thaneither alone ininhibiting tumorgrowth (13). Treatment withthe biological immunomodulator BCGhasbeenreported toameliorate recurrent herpes vaginalis inwomen(1). Prophylactic treatment ofrabbits andmicewithBCGresulted insomeprotection against systemic herpesvirus infection (3,19). Protection could alsobeproduced bythesynthetic polyanions polyriboinosinic-cytidylic acid
The synthesis of potential "combined prodrugs" where phosphonoformic acid (PFA) or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) was attached to the 5'-O or N4 position of 2',3'-dideoxy-3'-thiacytidine (BCH-189) is described. The anti-HIV-1 activity of 11 analogues which included carboxylic ester or phosphoric ester linkages of PFA or PAA to BCH-189 was determined in MT-4 cells. Of these compounds, the IC50 of analogues 3, 4, 6, and 7 ranged from 0.2 to 100 microM, while IC50 for BCH-189 in this system was 0.1 microM. In vitro hydrolysis of the various esters or amides in human plasma indicated that these agents were relatively stable in the presence of plasma esterases with t1/2 values of up to 120 min. Moreover, lipophilicity of these compounds (partition coefficient) was determined in order to establish correlation between lipophilicity and diffusion of BCH-189 analogues into the cells. The active compounds may exert their effects by extracellular or intracellular hydrolysis to the corresponding antiviral agent BCH-189, but intrinsic anti-HIV-1 activity of some of PAA and PFA adducts, themselves, may also be involved.
The degradation of phosphonates in the natural environment constitutes a major route by which orthophosphate (Pi) is regenerated from organic phosphorus and recently implicated in marine methane production, with ramifications to environmental pollution issues and global climate change concerns. This work explores the application of stable oxygen isotope analysis in elucidating the CP bond cleavage mechanism(s) of phosphonates by UV photo-oxidation and for tracing their sources in the environment. The two model phosphonates used, glyphosate and phosphonoacetic acid were effectively degraded after exposure to UV irradiation. The isotope results indicate the involvement of both ambient water and atmospheric oxygen in the CP bond cleavage and generally consistent with previously posited mechanisms of UV-photon excitation reactions. A model developed to calculate the oxygen isotopic composition of the original phosphonate P-moiety, shows both synthetic phosphonates having distinctly lower values compared to naturally derived organophosphorus compounds. Such mechanistic models, based on O-isotope probing, are useful for tracing the sources and reactions of phosphonates in the environment.
The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) UL78 ORF is considered to encode a seven-transmembrane receptor. However, neither the gene nor the UL78 protein has been characterized so far. The objective of this study was to investigate the UL78 gene and to clarify whether it is essential for replication. UL78 transcription was activated early after infection, was inhibited by cycloheximide but not by phosphonoacetic acid, and resulted in a 1.7 kb mRNA. Later in the replication cycle, a second mRNA of 4 kb evolved, comprising the UL77 and UL78 ORFs. The 5' end of the UL78 mRNA initiated 48 bp upstream of the translation start and the polyadenylated tail started 268 bp downstream of the UL78 translation stop codon within the UL79 ORF. By using bacterial artificial chromosome technology, a recombinant HCMV lacking most of the UL78 coding region was constructed. Successful reconstitution of the UL78-deficient virus proved that the gene was not essential for virus replication in fibroblasts. The deletion also did not reduce virus replication in ex vivo-cultured sections of human renal arteries. Analysis of viral proteins at different stages of the replication cycle confirmed these results. Among clinical HCMV isolates, the predicted UL78 protein was highly conserved. However, an accumulation of different single mutations could be found in the N-terminal region and at the very end of the C terminus. Due to the absence of an in vivo HCMV model, the role of UL78 in the pathogenesis of HCMV infection in humans remains unclear.
Replication of positive-strand caliciviruses is mediated by a virus-encoded RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). To study the replication of Norovirus (NV), a member of the family Caliciviridae, we used a recombinant baculovirus system to express an enzymatically active RdRp protein from the 3D region of the NV genome and defined conditions for optimum enzymatic activity. Using an RNA template from the NV 3′ genomic region, we observed similar levels of enzymatic activity in assays with and without a poly(A) tail. RdRp activity was not significantly affected by the addition of an RNA primer to the reaction mixture. Thus, the NV RdRp exhibited primer- and poly(A)-independent RNA polymerase activity. While the RdRp inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid inhibited NV RdRp activity, another gliotoxin did not. The active recombinant NV RdRp will be of benefit to studies of NV replication and will facilitate the development of specific inhibitors of NV proliferation.
Three organically templated uranium(VI) carboxyphosphonates, [C(10)H(10)N(2)][(UO(2))(3)(PPA)(2)(HPPA)(H(2)O)] x 3 H(2)O (1), [C(12)H(12)N(2)][(UO(2))(3)(PPA)(2)(HPPA)(H(2)O)] x 2 H(2)O (2), and [C(12)H(14)N(2)][(UO(2))(3)(PPA)(2)(HPPA)(H(2)O)] x 2 H(2)O (3) have been prepared from hydrothermal reactions of UO(2)(NO(3))(2) x 6 H(2)O and phosphonoacetic acid (H(2)O(3)PCH(2)CO(2)H, H(3)PPA) in the presence of 4,4'-dipyridyl, 1,2-bis(4-pyridyl)-ethylene and 1,2-bis(4-pyridyl)-ethane. The crystal structures of 1-3 are built from UO(7) units linked via phosphonoacetate molecules to form 2-dimensional [(UO(2))(3)(PPA)(2)(HPPA)(H(2)O)](2-) networks which are charge balanced by doubly protonated bipyridyl molecules. Interaction of the pyridyl molecules with other functionalities present in 1-3 result in relatively strong N-H...O (2.707-3.155 A) and weaker C-H...O (2.948-3.237 A) interactions that constitute the interlayer. Water-carboxylate O-H...O hydrogen bonding (2.548-2.675 A) in 1-3 and pi-pi interactions (3.708 A) between pyridyl rings in 2 also exist in these materials. Reported herein are the syntheses, structural characterization, and thermal and fluorescent behavior of 1-3.
Early during the herpes simplex virus (HSV) lytic cycle or in the presence of DNA synthesis inhibitors, core viral replication machinery proteins accumulate in intranuclear speckled punctate prereplicative foci, some of which colocalize with numerous sites of host cellular DNA synthesis initiation known as replisomes. At later times, in the absence of inhibitors, several globular or large irregularly shaped replication compartments are formed; these compartments also contain progeny viral DNA and incorporate the IE175(ICP4) transcription factor together with several cellular proteins involved in DNA replication and repair. In this study, we demonstrate that several forms of both prereplication foci and active viral replication compartments that display an appearance similar to that of the compartments in HSV-infected cells can be successfully assembled in transient assays in DNA-transfected cells receiving genes encoding all seven essential HSV replication fork proteins together with oriS target plasmid DNA. Furthermore, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-pulse-labeled DNA synthesis initiation sites colocalized with the HSV single-stranded DNA-binding protein (SSB) in these replication compartments, implying that active viral DNA replication may be occurring. The assembly of complete HSV replication compartments and incorporation of BrdU were both abolished by treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and by omission of any one of the seven viral replication proteins, UL5, UL8, UL9, UL42, UL52, SSB, and Pol, that are essential for viral DNA replication. Consistent with the fact that both HSV IE175 and IE63(ICP27) localize within replication compartments in HSV-infected cells, the assembled HSV replication compartments were also able to recruit both of these essential regulatory proteins. Blocking viral DNA synthesis with PAA, but not omission of oriS, prevented the association of IE175 with prereplication structures. The assembled HSV replication compartments also redistributed cotransfected cellular p53 into the viral replication compartments. However, the other two HSV immediate-early nuclear proteins IE110(ICP0) and IE68(ICP22) did not enter the replication compartments in either infected or transfected cells.
Thirteen established anti-herpes compounds have been directly compared in a single assay system for their effects on the development of herpetic skin lesions, and mortality associated therewith, in athymic nude (nu/nu) mice inoculated intracutaneously with herpes simplex virus type 1 (KOS). When applied topically (at 1% in a water-soluble ointment), phosphonoacetic acid, E-5-(2-bromovinyl)-29-deoxyuridine, acycloguanosine, and trisodium phosphonoformate emerged as the most active agents.
Previous analysis of the human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) DNA polymerase (UL54) early gene promoter demonstrated that transcriptional activation of this gene is dependent upon the interaction of cellular transcription factors with viral transactivators (J. A. Kerry, M. A. Priddy, T. Y. Jervey, C. P. Kohler, T. L. Staley, C. D. Vanson, T. R. Jones, A. C. Iskenderian, D. G. Anders, and R. M. Stenberg, J. Virol. 70:373-382, 1996). A sequence element, IR1, was shown to be the primary regulatory element of this promoter in transient assays. However, assessment of this element in the context of the viral genome revealed IR1-independent activation at late times after infection. To extend these studies, we aim to identify additional sequence elements involved in the activation of the UL54 promoter. Our present studies demonstrate that the level of binding of proteins to the ATF site in the UL54 promoter is enhanced by viral infection. Furthermore this increase is sensitive to treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a DNA synthesis inhibitor. These data suggest that the increase in the level of ATF binding activity is regulated, either directly or indirectly, by HCMV late gene expression. By using specific antibodies, we determined that ATF-1 was a major component of the proteins binding to the UL54 ATF site at late times. In addition, we have demonstrated direct binding of recombinant ATF-1 to the UL54 ATF site. To assess the biological significance of these events, a recombinant virus construct was generated that contained the UL54 promoter with a mutation in the ATF site regulating expression of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter gene inserted between open reading frames US9 and US10. Analysis of this virus (RVATFmCAT) revealed that mutation of the ATF site does not alter the kinetics of UL54 promoter activation. However, levels of CAT mRNA and activity were reduced by 5- to 10-fold compared to those of the wild-type promoter at all stages of infection. These findings indicate that ATF-1 can regulate the levels of UL54 promoter activity at both early and late times. Furthermore, these results imply that HCMV can regulate the activity of cellular factors involved in early gene regulation.
Primary sympathetic neuronal cultures were maintained for up to 5 weeks after inoculation with herpes simplex virus (HSV) without evidence of viral infection. Treatment with acyclovir for the first 7 days after viral inoculation prevented lytic infections in 100% of the cultures and resulted in viral latency in 100% of the cultures; reactivation occurred as the result of nerve growth factor (NGF) deprivation. Treatment of the cultures with several different inhibitors of viral DNA polymerase (acyclovir, aphidicolin, and phosphonoacetic acid) for 7 days after viral inoculation did not prevent the establishment of latency, which suggests that viral DNA replication was not required. During the latent phase of the infection, viral antigens were not detected with HSV-specific immunohistochemistry. However, 24 h after NGF deprivation, viral antigens were detected in essentially all of the neurons, indicating that the majority of neurons harbored latent HSV. The establishment of latency was not strain or type specific since latency was established with HSV type 2 and four strains of HSV type 1 and reactivation occurred in response to NGF deprivation.
Genital infection of mice with Herpesvirus hominis type 2 provides an experimental model for screening potential antiviral chemotherapeutic agents before clinical trials in humans. Intravaginal treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (at a dose of 500 mg/kg in saline or as a 5% cream) initiated 3 hr after inoculation with H. hominis type 2 completely inhibited viral replication in the genital tract and prevented subsequent mortality. Although therapy initiated 24-72 hr after infection significantly reduced titers of virus in vaginal secretions from three- to 100-fold, most mice eventually died of encephalitis. Topical treatment with either adenine arabinoside or adenine arabinoside 5'-monophosphate at a dose of 500 mg/kg in saline or as a 10% cream failed to alter viral replication in the genital tract or to protect the mice from death due to encephalitis. Treatment by the intraperitoneal route with any of these three agents had no effect on local viral replication or final mortality.
We have previously shown that the porcine alphaherpesvirus pseudorabies virus (PRV) efficiently interferes with phosphorylation of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2α. Inhibition of phosphorylation of eIF2α has been reported earlier for the closely related alphaherpesvirus herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) through its ICP34.5 and US11 proteins. PRV, however, does not encode an ICP34.5 or US11 orthologue. Assays using cycloheximide, UV-inactivated PRV, or phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) showed that de novo expression of one or more (immediate) early viral protein(s) is required for interference with eIF2α phosphorylation. In line with this, a time course assay showed that eIF2α phosphorylation was abolished within 2 h after PRV inoculation. PRV encodes only one immediate-early protein, IE180, the orthologue of HSV-1 ICP4. As reported earlier, a combinational treatment of cells with cycloheximide and actinomycin D allowed expression of IE180 without detectable expression of the US3 early protein in PRV-infected cells. This led to a substantial reduction in eIF2α phosphorylation levels, indicative for an involvement of IE180. In support of this, transfection of IE180 also potently reduced eIF2α phosphorylation. IE180-mediated interference with eIF2α phosphorylation was not cell type dependent, as it occurred both in rat neuronal 50B11 cells and in swine testicle cells. Inhibition of the cellular phosphatase PP1 impaired PRV-mediated interference with eIF2α phosphorylation, indicating that PP1 is involved in this process. In conclusion, the immediate-early IE180 protein of PRV has the previously uncharacterized ability to suppress phosphorylation levels of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF2α.
Abstract We have constructed a genetic map of the thymidine kinase gene of HSV 1 using a new technique for measuring the frequency of TK + virus in a population composed primarily of TK mutant virus. This genetic map was also oriented with respect to the genetic and physical map of the entire genome by reciprocal three-point crosses between TK and a marker in the viral DNA polymerase gene (resistance to phosphonoacetic acid). A correlation between the sizes of the TK-related polypeptides induced by various TK mutants and their map positions was observed, suggesting that the TK gene is transcribed from right to left on our map. The polarity of transcription of the TK gene was directly confirmed by hybridization of labeled mRNA from infected cells to the separated complementary strands of a cloned BamHI fragment of HSV 1 DNA which contains the TK gene. The results demonstrate that TK is transcribed from the leftward-reading strand of HSV 1 DNA represented in the P arrangement.
The DNA polymerase activity, and susceptibilities to 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine(ara-A) and 1-beta-arabinofuranosylcytosine(ara-C) of a phosphonoacetic acid resistant mutant (PAA-R) of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) selected in the presence of PAA were examined. The DNA polymerase activity of PAA-R was inhibited less than that of the parent strain by PAA in vitro. PAA-R was resistant to acyclovir and also to both ara-A and ara-C. The susceptibilities to ara-A and ara-C of four acyclovir resistant mutants selected in the presence of acyclovir, and also resistant to PAA, were examined. Two variants were resistant, one was slightly resistant, and one was sensitive to both drugs. These cross-resistances and susceptibilities of VZV variants to PAA, ACV, ara-A and ara-C should be considered in chemotherapy of VZV infections.
Seven lymphoid cell lines previously characterized with respect to their resident Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome content were infected or superinfected with concentrated EBV from supernatant of the P3HR-1 cell line. Immunofluorescence assays were conducted on smears 48 hours after infection, using human sera containing antibodies to EBV early antigen (EA). Two EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA) negative cell lines containing no detectable resident EBV DNA and five EBNA positive cell lines containing EBV genomes were tested. The cell lines did not spontaneously express EBV EA (i.e., they were non-producers). All cell lines responded to infection or superinfection with EBV by expressing EA. Treatment of the cell lines with arabinosylcytosine (Ara-C) 10 micrograms/ml, at the time of infection resulted in significant decreases in the number of cells expressing detectable EA after drug treatment in all cell lines (72 +/- 5 percent inhibition of EA expression). Experiments were also conducted with hydroxyurea (HU) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). It was found that treatment with HU (100 micrograms/ml) inhibited EA production in cell lines containing EBV genome copies by 81 percent as compared to the superinfected cultures receiving no drug. In primary infection of EBNA negative cell lines, HU had minimal effects. PAA (100 micrograms/ml), on the other hand, had very little effect on EA expression following superinfection of cell lines harboring the EBV genome, but reduced the EA expression after primary infection of EBNA negative cell lines by 70 to 80 percent. All drugs were used at concentrations having little effect on RNA and protein synthesis. However, HU and Ara-C significantly reduced DNA synthesis and cell division in the treated cultures.
The local and trigeminal ganglionic therapeutic efficacy of two topical and systemic antiviral drugs was studied in mouse lips inoculated with herpes simplex virus type 1 after thermal injury. Application of topical 3% acyclovir (acycloguanosine) ointment three times daily for four days completely blocked the replication of virus in the lips, and the healing process was greatly accelerated compared with that in placebo-treated infected controls. However, neither the healing process nor the viral replication was influenced by similar therapy with 30% vidarabine ointment. When given systemically for four days, starting one day after inoculation, acyclovir (40-60 mg/kg per day) and vidarabine (50 mg/kg per day) significantly reduced the clinical manifestations on the lips and viral titers of cultures obtained from the lips. Establishment of viral latency in the trigeminal ganglion was significantly inhibited by systemic acyclovir (60 mg/kg per day), whereas systemic vidarabine (50 mg/kg per day) was ineffective. These data suggest that acyclovir may be one of the most promising antiviral agents for the management of oral herpes viral infections and trigeminal ganglionic latency of virus as demonstrated in the mouse model. Much effort has been expended in the search for effective antiviral compounds for infections with herpes simplex virus (HSV). Several antiviral agents have shown promise in the management of HSV infections in animals and humans. Topical applications of iododeoxyuridine, vidarabine (ARA-A), and trifluorothymidine are useful for the treatment of herpetic epithelial keratitis in man [1-4]. Systemic administration of ARA-A is effective in treatment of patients with herpetic encephalitis [5] and in treatment of immunosuppressed patients severely infected with mucocutaneous herpes zoster [6]. Ointments of phosphonoacetic acid, ARA-A, and ARA-A monophosphate have been effective in cutaneous [7] and orofacial [8] herpetic infection in laboratory animals. Acyclovir (acycloguanosine; 9-[2-hydroxyethoxy
After Epstein-Barr virus superinfection of the human lymphoblastoid cell line Raji, a Burkitt lymphoma-derived line that contains Epstein-Barr virus genomes in an episomal form, at least 40 polypeptides could be resolved by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Eleven of the 40 polypeptides were immunoprecipitable by early antigen+/viral capsid antigen+ antiserum. The polypeptides could be divided into six classes, immediate-early, early, intermediate, late, very late, and persistent, depending upon the time of synthesis. Ten of the 40 polypeptides appeared to preexist before superinfection and persisted despite general cessation of host protein synthesis; none of the persistent proteins was immunoprecipitated by the Epstein-Barr virus antibody-containing serum. When viral DNA replication was blocked by a variety of inhibitors of DNA synthesis, a number of different patterns of polypeptide synthesis could be detected. The synthesis of six polypeptides was blocked by the most virus-specific inhibitors, acyclovir and phosphonoacetic acid. Additionally, in the presence of 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine, 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine, and methotrexate, seven polypeptides showed oversynthesis.
The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) UL78 ORF is considered to encode a seven-transmembrane receptor. However, neither the gene nor the UL78 protein has been characterized so far. The objective of this study was to investigate the UL78 gene and to clarify whether it is essential for replication. UL78 transcription was activated early after infection, was inhibited by cycloheximide but not by phosphonoacetic acid, and resulted in a 1?7 kb mRNA. Later in the replication cycle, a second mRNA of 4 kb evolved, comprising the UL77 and UL78 ORFs. The 59 end of the UL78 mRNA initiated 48 bp upstream of the translation start and the polyadenylated tail started 268 bp downstream of the UL78 translation stop codon within the UL79 ORF. By using bacterial artificial chromosome technology, a recombinant HCMV lacking most of the UL78 coding region was constructed. Successful reconstitution of the UL78-deficient virus proved that the gene was not essential for virus replication in fibroblasts. The deletion also did not reduce virus replication in ex vivo-cultured sections of human renal arteries. Analysis of viral proteins at different stages of the replication cycle confirmed these results. Among clinical HCMV isolates, the predicted UL78 protein was highly conserved. However, an accumulation of different single mutations could be found in the N-terminal region and at the very end of the C terminus. Due to the absence of an in vivo HCMV model, the role of UL78 in the pathogenesis of HCMV infection in humans remains unclear.
Northern blot analysis. HFFs were infected at an m.o.i. of 1 and harvested at the indicated time points. To arrest virus replication in the immediate-early or early stage, the metabolic inhibitors cycloheximide (CHX, 100 mg ml 21 ) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA, 250 mg ml
Replication of positive-strand caliciviruses is mediated by a virus-encoded RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). To study the replication of Norovirus (NV), a member of the family Caliciviridae, we used a recombinant baculovirus system to express an enzymatically active RdRp protein from the 3D region of the NV genome and defined conditions for optimum enzymatic activity. Using an RNA template from the NV 3 genomic region, we observed similar levels of enzymatic activity in assays with and without a poly(A) tail. RdRp activity was not significantly affected by the addition of an RNA primer to the reaction mixture. Thus, the NV RdRp exhibited primer-and poly(A)-independent RNA polymerase activity. While the RdRp inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid inhibited NV RdRp activity, another gliotoxin did not. The active recombinant NV RdRp will be of benefit to studies of NV replication and will facilitate the development of specific inhibitors of NV proliferation.
Early during the herpes simplex virus (HSV) lytic cycle or in the presence of DNA synthesis inhibitors, core viral replication machinery proteins accumulate in intranuclear speckled punctate prereplicative foci, some of which colocalize with numerous sites of host cellular DNA synthesis initiation known as replisomes. At later times, in the absence of inhibitors, several globular or large irregularly shaped replication compartments are formed; these compartments also contain progeny viral DNA and incorporate the IE175(ICP4) transcription factor together with several cellular proteins involved in DNA replication and repair. In this study, we demonstrate that several forms of both prereplication foci and active viral replication compartments that display an appearance similar to that of the compartments in HSV-infected cells can be successfully assembled in transient assays in DNA-transfected cells receiving genes encoding all seven essential HSV replication fork proteins together with oriS target plasmid DNA. Furthermore, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-pulse-labeled DNA synthesis initiation sites colocalized with the HSV single-stranded DNA-binding protein (SSB) in these replication compartments, implying that active viral DNA replication may be occurring. The assembly of complete HSV replication compartments and incorporation of BrdU were both abolished by treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and by omission of any one of the seven viral replication proteins, UL5, UL8, UL9, UL42, UL52, SSB, and Pol, that are essential for viral DNA replication. Consistent with the fact that both HSV IE175 and IE63(ICP27) localize within replication compartments in HSV-infected cells, the assembled HSV replication compartments were also able to recruit both of these essential regulatory proteins. Blocking viral DNA synthesis with PAA, but not omission of oriS, prevented the association of IE175 with prereplication structures. The assembled HSV replication compartments also redistributed cotransfected cellular p53 into the viral replication compartments. However, the other two HSV immediate-early nuclear proteins IE110(ICP0) and IE68(ICP22) did not enter the replication compartments in either infected or transfected cells.
A sequence element, IR1, was shown to be the primary regulatory element of this promoter in transient assays. However, assessment of this element in the context of the viral genome revealed IR1-independent activation at late times after infection. To extend these studies, we aim to identify additional sequence elements involved in the activation of the UL54 promoter. Our present studies demonstrate that the level of binding of proteins to the ATF site in the UL54 promoter is enhanced by viral infection. Furthermore this increase is sensitive to treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a DNA synthesis inhibitor. These data suggest that the increase in the level of ATF binding activity is regulated, either directly or indirectly, by HCMV late gene expression. By using specific antibodies, we determined that ATF-1 was a major component of the proteins binding to the UL54 ATF site at late times. In addition, we have demonstrated direct binding of recombinant ATF-1 to the UL54 ATF site. To assess the biological significance of these events, a recombinant virus construct was generated that contained the UL54 promoter with a mutation in the ATF site regulating expression of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter gene inserted between open reading frames US9 and US10. Analysis of this virus (RVATFmCAT) revealed that mutation of the ATF site does not alter the kinetics of UL54 promoter activation. However, levels of CAT mRNA and activity were reduced by 5-to 10-fold compared to those of the wild-type promoter at all stages of infection. These findings indicate that ATF-1 can regulate the levels of UL54 promoter activity at both early and late times. Furthermore, these results imply that HCMV can regulate the activity of cellular factors involved in early gene regulation.
We examined the impact of two clinically approved anti-herpes drugs, acyclovir and Forscarnet (phosphonoformate), on the exonuclease activity of the herpes simplex virus-1 DNA polymerase, UL30. Acyclovir triphosphate and Foscarnet, along with the closely related phosphonoacetic acid, did not affect exonuclease activity on single-stranded DNA. Furthermore, blocking the polymerase active site due to either binding of Foscarnet or phosphonoacetic acid to the E-DNA complex or polymerization of acyclovir onto the DNA also had a minimal effect on exonuclease activity. The inability of the exonuclease to excise acyclovir from the primer 3'-terminus results from the altered sugar structure directly impeding phosphodiester bond hydrolysis as opposed to inhibiting binding, unwinding of the DNA by the exonuclease, or transfer of the DNA from the polymerase to the exonuclease. Removing the 3'-hydroxyl or the 2'-carbon from the nucleotide at the 3'-terminus of the primer strongly inhibited exonuclease activity, although addition of a 2'-hydroxyl did not affect exonuclease activity. The biological consequences of these results are twofold. First, the ability of acyclovir and Foscarnet to block dNTP polymerization without impacting exonuclease activity raises the possibility that their effects on herpes replication may involve both direct inhibition of dNTP polymerization and exonuclease-mediated destruction of herpes DNA. Second, the ability of the exonuclease to rapidly remove a ribonucleotide at the primer 3'-terminus in combination with the polymerase not efficiently adding dNTPs onto this primer provides a novel mechanism by which the herpes replication machinery can prevent incorporation of ribonucleotides into newly synthesized DNA.
We synthesised analogues of diphosphoinositol polyphosphates (PP-InsPs) in which the diphosphate is replaced by an α-phosphonoacetic acid (PA) ester. Structural analysis revealed that 5-PA-InsP5 mimics 5-PP-InsP5 binding to the kinase domain of PPIP5K2; both molecules were phosphorylated by the enzyme. PA-InsPs are promising candidates for further studies into the biology of PP-InsPs.
Abstract ::: In this report, we describe the isolation, molecular genetic mapping, and phenotypic characterization of vaccinia virus mutants resistant to cytosine arabinoside (araC) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). At 37 degrees C, 8 microM araC was found to prevent macroscopic plaque formation by wild-type virus and to cause a 10(4)-fold reduction in viral yield. Mutants resistant to 8 microM araC were selected by serial passage of a chemically mutagenized viral stock in the presence of drug. Because recovery of mutants required that initial passages be performed under less stringent selective conditions, and because plaque-purified isolates were found to be cross-resistant to 200 micrograms of PAA per ml, it seemed likely that resistance to araC required more than one genetic lesion. This hypothesis was confirmed by genetic and physical mapping of the responsible mutations. PAAr was accorded by the acquisition of one of three G-A transitions in the DNA polymerase gene which individually alter cysteine 356 to tyrosine, glycine 372 to aspartic acid, or glycine 380 to serine. AraCr was found to require one of these substitutions plus an additional T-C transition within codon 171 of the DNA polymerase gene, a change which replaces the wild-type phenylalanine with serine. Congenic viral stocks carrying one of the three PAAr lesions, either alone or in conjunction with the upstream araCr lesion, in an otherwise wild-type background were generated. The PAAr mutations conferred nearly complete resistance to PAA, a slight degree of resistance to araC, hypersensitivity to aphidicolin, and decreased spontaneous mutation frequency. Addition of the mutation at codon 171 significantly augmented araC resistance and aphidicolin hypersensitivity but caused no further change in mutation frequency. Several lines of evidence suggest that the PAAr mutations primarily affect the deoxynucleoside triphosphate-binding site, whereas the codon 171 mutation, lying within a conserved motif associated with 3'-5' exonuclease function, is postulated to affect the proofreading exonuclease of the DNA polymerase.
Two mutants defective in herpes simplex virus-encoded ribonucleotide reductase activity exhibited the novel phenotype of hypersensitivity to acyclovir, aphidicolin, and to a lesser extent, phosphonoacetic acid. These results have implications for acyclovir resistance and the development of drugs that potentiate acyclovir action by inhibition of viral ribonucleotide reductase.
The interaction ofγ-Al2O3 and polyanions of different classes of substances was investigated by means of adsorption and measurements of the electrokinetic potential. Whereas the isotherm (pH 7, 25 °C) of sodium sulfate is of theLangmuir type those of sodiumtripolyphosphate, mellitic acid, ethanehydroxy-1. 1-dip hosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, α-phosphonopropionic acid, and nitrilotriacetic acid are of the high affinity type. Some polyanions attack the alumina surface strongly through the formation of soluble Al-complexes. Because of this effect the scale of equilibrium concentration is shifted towards the origin, and consequently the slope of the isotherm is affected in a complicated fashion. Therefore, it is impossible to calculate the affinity between anions and solid surface from the rise of the isotherms. On the other hand a ratio of surface coverage and molecular cross section derived from the values of saturation enables to establish a sequence of affinities. Adsorption is strongly pH-dependent. A significant decrease is observed with increasing pH. Adsorption is increased with increasing temperature. Since adsorption enthalpies of alumina in the solutions of the polyanions are about those in pure water, entropy should control the adsorption process. The IEP of the solid is about 9. A very small shift of IEP is observed in the presence of sodium sulfate whereas those of the polyanions cause a strong one in the direction towards lower pH (pH < 2). In addition a significant increase of pH is observed when the solid is dispersed in the solutions of polyanions. All data indicate that chemisorption of the investigated polyanions at the alumina surface occurs whereas for sulfate physisorption probably takes place.
The molecular specificity of the IgG response against Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) was studied in 345 randomly collected sera of normal healthy individuals. The sera were tested on immunoblots containing antigens of the cell line HH514.c16 (a superinducible derivate of P3HR1), noninduced or induced for the expression of early antigens (EA) or viral capsid antigens (VCA), and from the EBV-negative cell line Ramos-Nut. This study reveals a remarkable similar antigen recognition pattern of IgG class antibodies in sera of healthy EBV carriers. The protein bands recognized predominantly have molecular weights of 18 kD, 36/38 kD, 40 kD, 72 kD, and 160 kD. The 72 kD and 36/38 kD bands were identified as EBNA1 and "Zebra," respectively, using reading frame-specific antisera. The bands at 160 kD (major capsid protein), 40 kD, and 18 kD were identified as VCA-class proteins. Of all EBV-seropositive sera tested, 98% reacted with either p18 or p40 or both. The synthesis of the antigens p18 and p40 was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that these were true late proteins. The detection of p18 and p40 in purified virion and capsid preparations confirms that these proteins are structural components of viral capsid antigen complex. © 1993 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Abstract : A literature review is made concerning the distribution, metabolism, and structural properties of naturally occurring alkylphosphonic acids (molecules which contain a covalent carbonphosphorus bond). Alkylphosphonic acids, predominately as 2-aminoethylphosphonic acid (AEP), have been identified from a variety of specimens including bacteria, amoeba, protozoa, marine invertebrates, terrestrial molluscs, and from bovine, goat, and human tissue. The alkylphosphonic acids are found free and incorporated in lipid and protein materials. Miscellaneous other alkylphosphonic acids, such as the antiviral agent phosphonoacetic acid, may become useful in the future as therapeutic agents. The metabolic information available from bacterial studies demonstrates that the C-P linkage can be anabolized and catabolized by enzymatic means. Although the exact mechanism is not known, recently proposed mechanisms are presented. The phosphonolipids are well defined structurally and much remains to be determined concerning the cellular localization of the proteins and lipids. A function has yet to be determined for either the phosphonolipids or the phosphonoproteins although the broad distribution and unique character of the carbon-phosphorous bond indicates that phosphonates do serve or have served a useful biological purpose.
A uranyl-europium heterobimetallic compound, (TEA)3[(UO2)6Eu(H2O)4(PPA)6] (H3PPA = phosphonoacetic acid, TEA = tetraethylammonium cation), was synthesized under mild hydrothermal conditions. The emission spectrum contains characteristic electronic transition features of both Eu3+ and UO22+, while the peak intensity of Eu3+ is notably higher than that of UO22+. This is primarily attributed to the energy transfer from uranyl to europium in the structure. Significantly, a positive correlation between the Eu3+ peak intensity at 621 nm and the D2O content can be established in the aqueous system, while the uranyl peak intensity is almost unchanged, allowing for the full-range ratiometric detection of D2O in H2O.
Systematic co-crystallization of a pyrazole analogue with various phosphonic acids resulted in robust supramolecular synthons between phosphonic acid and pyrazole, responsible for solid-state design. A series of phosphonic acids and methylenebis(3,5-dimethylpyrazole) (MBPz) has produced six molecular salts viz., [HPPA−·H2PPA·HMBPz+·MBPz] (1), [(HtBPA−)2·H2MBPz2+·EtOH] (2), [HPAA−·HMBPz+·MBPz·MeOH] (3), [HPPRA−·HMBPz+] (4), [H2EA2−·H2MBPz2+·S] (5) and [H3DPA−·(H2DPA2−)0.5·H2MBPz2+·(H2O)0.4] (6) where H2PPA = phenylphosphonic acid, H2PAA = phosphonoacetic acid, H2PPRA = 3-phosphonopropionic acid, H2tBPA = tert-butylphosphonic acid, H4EA = etidronic acid, H4DPA = [1,4-phenylenebis(methylene)]diphosphonic acid and S = squeezed solvent molecule. Different substituent(s) on the phosphonic acid influenced the conformation of the MBPz molecule, which in turn led to the formation of distinct supramolecular organic frameworks (SOFs) with an array of reliable synthons. Structural analyses revealed that both compounds 1 and 2 exhibited a layered structure but the parallel stacked sheets are displaced in the former salt as compared to the latter. Salts 4 and 5 exhibited a three-dimensional (3D) hydrogen bonded supramolecular network and 2D porous supramolecular network, respectively. On the other hand, salts 3 and 6 display an interpenetrated supramolecular network and host–guest assembly, respectively. Furthermore, the interaction energy was calculated theoretically by using the Density Functional Theory (DFT) level energy to evaluate the stability of the corresponding salt, which was further corroborated by differential scanning calorimetry-thermogravimetric (DSC-TG) analysis.
The location of the BcLF1 promoter of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been identified by primer extension, which indicates that the +1 site of the BcLF1 mRNA is located at nucleotide 137676 of the EBV genome. According to deletion analysis, the region upstream from nucleotide -38 is not essential for transcription of BcLF1. A 23 bp region in the promoter, from nucleotide -38 to -16, was identified as necessary for regulating the expression of BcLF1, i.e. the promoter activity is activated by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate but is repressed by phosphonoacetic acid. The results presented also demonstrate that the oriLyt sequence in cis is essential for enhancing the expression of BcLF1.
By comparative sequence analysis of the herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA polymerase gene of strain Angelotti and a phosphonoacetic acid-resistant (PAAr) derivative, the site of the PAAr mutation was identified as a single nucleotide (C----T) conversion within the mapping limits of the known PAAr mutations of strains KOS and 17. The conservative amino acid change at residue 719 from alanine to valine results in a radical change in the properties of the polymerase, rendering the mutant enzyme resistant to PAA and various antiviral compounds. Amino acid homologies as well as secondary structure analysis reveal that the PAAr mutation is contained in a 14 amino acid sequence which is highly conserved, and detected in the central domain of prokaryotic and eukaryotic DNA polymerases.
By comparative sequence analysis of the herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA polymerase gene of strain Angelotti and a phosphonoacetic acid-resistant (PAA9 derivative, the site of the PAA r mutation was identified as a single nucleotide (C --, T) conversion within the mapping limits of the known PAA r mutations of strains KOS and 17. The conservative amino acid change at residue 719 from alanine to valine results in a radical change in the properties of the polymerase, rendering the mutant enzyme resistant to PAA and various antiviral compounds. Amino acid homologies as well as secondary structure analysis reveal that the PAA ~ mutation is contained in a 14 amino acid sequence which is highly conserved, and detected in the central domain of prokaryotic and eukaryotic DNA polymerases.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV) DNA polymerase represents one of the major target enzymes of modern antiviral chemotherapy. The unique response of the enzyme towards antiherpetic drugs, and the ease by which drug-resistant variants with altered enzymic properties are isolated, have rendered the HSV polymerase gene an excellent model system for correlating genetic changes with altered enzymic functions. Biochemical studies on the polymerase activity of HSV type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 variants and intertypic recombinants reveal that mutations causing resistance to the pyrophosphate analogue phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) also render the enzyme resistant to nucleoside analogues (Furman et al., 1981 ; Knopf et al., 1981 ; Coen et al., 1982) . The mutually exclusive inhibition of the wild-type enzyme by pyrophosphate and nucleoside analogues suggests that the binding sites for dNTP and PP~ are kinetically overlapping (Frank & Cheng, 1985) . By marker rescue studies (Chartrand et al., 1979; Coen et al., 1984) and sequence analysis (Gibbs et al., 1985) , the limits for the PAA resistance (PAA r) mutations of strains KOS and 17 were narrowed to a region between amino acid residues 535 and 924. Owing to the extended homologies noted between the predicted DNA polymerase proteins of herpesviruses, poxviruses and adenoviruses (Quinn & McGeoch, 1985; Gibbs et al., 1985; Earl et al., 1986) , this C terminal domain has been proposed to participate in the organization of the catalytic site of the enzyme.
In the nonreplicative phase of infection, intracellular Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA exists as an covalently closed circular (CCC) episome (18, 21). After induction of replication, the episomal DNA seems to serve as template for generation of the linear, virion DNA, which is synthesized by a virus-specific DNA polymerase, in contrast to the episomal form (8, 10, 21). Treatment of virus-producer cell lines with phosphonoacetic acid or acyclovir (ACV), specific inhibitors of EBV polymerase, greatly reduces the abundance of viral DNA; however, a small portion of the viral DNA in cell lines is resistant to inhibition by PAA and ACV and consists of CCC DNA (5, 6, 8, 29, 33) . The inhibitors of the viral DNA polymerase also do not decrease the abundance of EBV DNA in cell lines that do not produce virus and that contain only episomal DNA, indicating that EBV episomal DNA is maintained by the host cellular DNA polymerase (5, 18). An origin of replication that confers the ability to be maintained episomally in the presence of an EBV gene product, EBNA1, has been identified (35). EBV DNA has homologous direct tandem repeats of approximately 500 bp at each terminus (TR) (1, 7, 9, 17) . In preparations of virion DNA, the terminal restriction endonuclease fragments are heterogeneous in size, varying by increments of 500 bp (9, 17). After infection, the linear termini join to form covalently closed episomal DNA. Variability in the number of TR at each linear terminus of EBV virion DNA generates fused termini after circularization that also contain variable numbers of TR (4, 7, 17, 22, 23) . Analysis of the terminal restriction enzyme fragments of EBV revealed that in monoclonal cell lines and EBVinfected malignancies, the EBV DNA was clonal, with a homogeneous number of TR in the fused terminal restriction enzyme fragment representing the episomal DNA (3, 4, 23) . The clonality of EBV genomes indicated, by extension, cellular monoclonality (23). In addition, the structure of the EBV termini provided evidence for viral replication, as indicated by the appearance of ladder arrays of terminal fragments representing linear forms of EBV DNA (14, 23). Evidence of linear arrays have also been detected in vivo in many lymphoproliferations (14) .
While both primary and chronic herpes simplex virus (HSV) in vitro infections of a Burkitt's lymphoma-derived cell line (Raji) were similarly characterized by the induction of IgG-Fe receptors in about 50% of cells, the persistent HSV infection of Raji cells was also accompanied by an induction of surface-bound IgM in approximately 80% of cells. This IgM induction was suppressed by treating the infected cells with interferon, but not with phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of herpes virus DNA polymerase activity. The fact that only the cell population which had lost this IgM expression was superinfectable would suggest that this Ig may play a protective role (e.g. antibody activity?) against HSV.
A mouse model of encephalitis caused by herpes simplex virus was used to compare the antiviral activity of tilorone hydrochloride with that of phosphonoacetic acid. These compounds were also administered simultaneously to determine whether the combination had a synergistic effect. Rates of survival and concentrations of virus in brain were used as criteria for judging the effectiveness of treatment. The fatal course of encephalitis was not altered by any treatment protocols in which tilorone hydrochloride was used alone. Four days of treatment with phosphonoacetic acid resulted in a long-term survival rate of about 15% of the infected, treated animals, and extension of this therapy for an additional three days resulted in an overall survival rate of about 35%. No increase in survival rate was obtained by use of phosphonoacetic acid and tilorone hydrochloride in combination. The concentration of virus in the brains of tilorone hydrochloride treated animals did not differ significantly from that in the untreated, infected control animals. Treatment with phosphonoacetic acid resulted in a reduction in titer of virus in brain and in an increased rate of survival.
Using the chemical structural analogs of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and related phosphonate compounds, we investigated which structural features are required for competitive inhibition of Na+-Pi cotransport in rat renal cortical brush border membrane (BBM) vesicles (BBMV). The effects of compounds on [Na+0 >Nai+]-gradient-dependent 32Pi uptake by BBMV were examined using various inhibitor-to-32Pi concentration ratios in the transport assay medium. The replacement of a phosphono-group with an arsono-group in PAA, or the substitution of a carboxylic group in PAA by an amino or hydroxyl group, totally abolished the inhibitory action on Na+-Pi cotransport. Decreased electro-negativity of carboxyl in PAA by coupling with hydrazine or hydroxylamine lowered the inhibitory potenty of PAA. Substitution of H at the α-carbon of PAA with ethyl or p-Cl-phenyl groups completely abolished the inhibitory activity, whereas α-halogenation with Br greatly increased the inhibitory potency of PAA, close to that of phosphonoformic acid (PFA). The inhibition by all the active tested monophosphates was strictly competitive. The tested compounds displaced [14C]PFA pre-bound onto BBMV in the presence of 100 mM NaCl. The ability of monophosphates to inhibit Na+-Pi cotransport across BBM and the binding of [14C]PFA were closely correlated (r = 0.925; P < 0.001). These results show that: (a) strong electronegativity at both ends of the PAA molecule is needed for inhibitory action, (b) an α-aliphatic or aromatic substituent at the α-carbon probably hinders the acess of the inhibitor to the Pi-binding site of the Na+-Pi cotransporter in BBM, whereas (c) an α-electrophilic substituent—Br—enhances the inhibitory potency of PAA. The tested compounds inhibited Na+-Pi cotransport by binding, in the presence of Na+, on the same site on the luminal surface of BBM as did PFA and, by extension, Pi.
Synthesis of the major DNA-binding protein (ICP8) was investigated in primary rabbit kidney (RK) and Vero cells infected with the syncytial (syn) strain HSZP or with the non-syn strain KOS of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). Results showed the following: 1. In contrast to strain KOS, the rate of viral polypeptide synthesis was accelerated in Vero cells infected with strain HSZP. The ICP8 could be detected in the nuclei of cells by one hour post-infection (hr p. i.) where it became associated with the viral DNA (DNase sensitive form). Later on (7 hr p.i.), the synthesis of viral polypeptides decreased and no further translocation of ICP8 from the cytoplasm into the nucleus was observed. 2. Strain HSZP was approx. three times more resistant to the action of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) than strain KOS. In order to block the synthesis of HSZP gamma-2 polypeptides, a concentration of 600 micrograms PAA/ml had to be used. Under this condition, the HSZP ICP8 was translocated into the cell nucleus at later interval only (7 hr p.i.), and it was still possible to release this polypeptide from the nucleus by DNase treatment. The failure of the HSZP ICP8 to associate with the nuclear matrix (DNase resistant form) of infected cells in the absence of viral DNA replication may reflect its predominant affinity for the viral DNA which, in turn, may be responsible for the observed accelerated synthesis of the HSZP polypeptides in infected Vero cells. 3. In primary RK cells infected with strain HSZP the ICP8 did not translocate into the cell nucleus. Therefore, no gamma-2 polypeptides were synthesized.
A process for preparing an α,β-unsaturated ester of the compound (4), ::: ::: wherein R 7 and R 8 are the same or different and hydrogen atom, C 1-6 alkyl group or phenyl group, ::: which comprises oxidizing a glycerol derivative (2), ::: ::: wherein R 7 and R 8 are the same as defined above, ::: in the presence of a nitroxyl radical compound and a co-oxidant to prepare a glyceraldehyde and then reacting the compound with a phosphonoacetic acid alkyl ester or a (triphenylphosphoranylidene)acetic acid alkyl ester to give the compound (4).
phi 29 DNA polymerase shares with other alpha-like DNA polymerases several regions of amino acid sequence similarity and sensitivity to inhibitors of eukaryotic DNA polymerase alpha. In this paper, site-directed mutants in the phi 29 DNA polymerase residues Asp249, Ser252, Leu253, and Pro255 of the conserved amino acid motif "Dx2SLYP" are described. Two mutants, D249E and S252R, were drastically affected in all the synthetic activities, whereas their 3' to 5' exonuclease activity and interaction with the TP primer was normal. Mutant D249E, slightly affected in template-primer binding, was completely inactive in all conditions tested, suggesting that Asp249 could be playing a direct role in catalysis. On the other hand, mutant S252R, strongly affected in template-primer binding, showed some DNA polymerization activity in the presence of Mn2+. Mutants S252G and P255S showed a reduced template-primer binding ability; these mutants, together with mutant L253V, showed metal ion-dependent phenotypes in their synthetic activities and altered sensitivities to the PPi analog phosphonoacetic acid. All these results support the hypothesis that the Dx2SLYP motif forms part of the polymerization active site of the phi 29 DNA polymerase, being the Asp249 residue critical both for protein-primed initiation and DNA polymerization.
Abstract The Mannich reaction of diethylphosphonoacetic acid (1) with paraformaldehyde and primary aliphatic amines provides a short and efficient approach to vinylphosphonates 5.
The immediate-early (IE) gene (IR1 gene) of equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV-1) encodes a single, spliced 6.0-kb mRNA during cytolytic infection. However, under early (in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid) and late (8 h postinfection; no metabolic inhibitors) conditions, in addition to the 6.0-kb IE mRNA, a 4.4-kb early (E) mRNA is transcribed from the IE gene region beginning at approximately 4 h postinfection. To map and characterize the 4.4-kb E mRNA and the protein product of this early gene (IR2 gene), Northern (RNA) blot hybridization, S1 nuclease, primer extension, and in vitro transcription and translation analyses were used. The data from RNA mapping analyses revealed that the 4.4-kb E IR2 mRNA (i) maps at nucleotides 4481 to 635 within each of the inverted repeats of the short region and thus is encoded by sequences that lie entirely within the IE gene, (ii) is transcribed in the same direction as the IE mRNA, initiating at nucleotide 4481, which lies 25 bp downstream of a putative TATA-like sequence and 1,548 bp downstream of the transcription initiation site of the IE mRNA, and (iii) is 39 coterminal with the IE mRNA which terminates at nucleotide 635 of the inverted repeats. The IR2 open reading frame was inserted into the transcription expression vector pGEM-3Z, and the RNA transcribed from this construct (pGEM44) was shown to be a 4.2-kb transcript that contained all IR2 sequences. In vitro translation of the 4.2-kb RNA yielded a major protein of approximately 130 kDa as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis. This protein corresponds to the predicted IR2 product of 1,165 amino acids that would be in frame with the major IE polypeptide (IE1 = 200 kDa; 1,487 amino acids) and thus would be a 59-truncated form of the IE1 polypeptide. The presence and potential role of the IR2 gene embedded within the IR1 gene increase the complexity of the regulation of the IE gene region during various stages of a productive infection. Images
Abstract By the effect of iodine, solid K 2 CO 3 and a lipophilic quaternary ammonium salt phosphonoacetic acid allylic esters 4 were converted to cyclopropanephosphonic acid derivatives anellated to a five membered lactone ring 6 serving as good starting material for biologically active products. The reaction of cyclopropanation has been assumed to proceed by SET induced radical type elemental steps. Direct evidences were given by ESR for the 6-endo regioselectivity in the closure of electrophilic radical 11 . An interesting and new exchange reaction of phosphonic ester moiety by iodine is also observed.
Rta, the gene product of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) encoded mainly in open reading frame 50 (ORF50), is capable of activating expression of viral lytic cycle genes. What was not demonstrated in previous studies was whether KSHV Rta was competent to initiate the entire viral lytic life cycle including lytic viral DNA replication, late-gene expression with appropriate kinetics, and virus release. In HH-B2, a newly established primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) cell line, KSHV ORF50 behaved as an immediate-early gene and autostimulated its own expression. Expression of late genes, ORF65, and K8.1 induced by KSHV Rta was eliminated by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase. Transfection of KSHV Rta increased the production of encapsidated DNase-resistant viral DNA from HH-B2 cells. Thus, introduction of an ORF50 expression plasmid is sufficient to drive the lytic cycle to completion in cultured PEL cells.
In cytomegalovirus-infected cells, the rate of protein synthesis was detected as two peaks. One occurred during the early phase of infection, 0 to 36 h postinfection, and the other occurred during the late phase, after the initiation of viral DNA synthesis. Double-isotopic-label difference analysis demonstrated that host and viral proteins were synthesized simultaneously during both phases. In the early phase, approximately 70 to 90% of the total proteins synthesized were host proteins, whereas approximately 10 to 30% were viral, even at a multiplicity of infection of 20 PFU/cell. Virus-related proteins or glycoproteins were referred to as infected-cell specific (ICS). Two ICS glycoproteins (gp145 and 100) were clearly detectable and were synthesized preferentially in the early phase of infection. Their synthesis was concomitant with stimulation of the protein synthesis rate. In the late phase of infection, approximately 50 to 60% of the total protein synthesis was viral and approximately 40 to 50% was host. The ICS proteins and glycoproteins detected during the late phase of infection were viral structural proteins. Infectious virus was not detectable until 48 to 72 h postinfection. An inhibitor of viral DNA synthesis, phosphonoacetic acid, prevented the appearance of the late-phase ICS proteins and glycoproteins, but there was little or no effect on early ICS glycoprotein synthesis. Radiolabeled ICS proteins and glycoproteins were identified by their relative rates of synthesis, by their different electrophoretic mobilities compared with those of host proteins and host glycoproteins, and by their similar electrophoretic mobilities compared to those of proteins and glycoproteins associated with virions and dense bodies of cytomegalovirus. Structural viral antigens in the infected-cell extracts were removed by immunoprecipitation, using F(ab')(2) fragments of cytomegalovirus-specific antibodies, and identified as described above. The last two criteria were used to identify viral structural ICS proteins and glycoproteins. Although approximately 35 structural proteins were found to be associated with purified virions and dense bodies, the continued synthesis of host cell proteins complicated their identification in infected cells. Nevertheless, seven of the nine structural glycoproteins were identified as ICS glycoproteins.
Abstract Aminocyclopropane phosphonic acids are considered to be “transition state analogues” of aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acids and they may serve as enzyme inhibitors1. We attempted to synthesise aminocyclopropane derivatives by a new route2. Phosphonoacetic acid allylic esters were subjected to an intramolecular, radical cyclisation in the presence of iodine, solid potassium carbonate and phase transfer catalyst.
Detailed spectroscopic data have been obtained for arsonoacetic acid, As(CH2COOH)O3H2, and its barium and sodium salts. The X-ray crystal structure of the free acid is isomorphous with phosphonoacetic acid. Reduction gave the As(I) compound arsenoacetic acid, (AsCH2COOH)n which was shown by ESI-MS to contain cyclic species based on AseAs bonds, with n mainly 3e6. The X-ray crystal structure of the hexamer was determined as the pyridine solvate and shown to have a hexacyclic As6 ring in a puckered chair conformation, with eCH2COOH groups in equatorial sites, each H-bonded to a pyridine molecule in the lattice. 2013 Published by Elsevier B.V.
(31)P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy was used to monitor the response of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis) and carrot (Daucus carota) cell suspensions to changes in the external pH. An airlift system was used to oxygenate the cells during the NMR measurements and a protocol was developed to enable a constant external pH to be maintained in the suspension when required. Phosphonoacetic acid was used as an external pH marker and the intracellular pH values were measured from the chemical shifts of the cytoplasmic and vacuolar orthophosphate resonances. In contrast to earlier studies the cytoplasmic pH was independent of the external pH over the range 5.5 to 8.0 and it was only below pH 5.5 that the cytoplasmic pH varied, falling at a rate of 0.12 pH unit per external unit. Loss of pH control was observed in response to sudden increases in external pH with the response of the cells depending on the conditions imposed. A notable feature of the recovery from these treatments was the transient acidification of the cytoplasm that occurred in a fraction of the cells and overshoot phenomena of this kind provided direct evidence for the time dependence of the regulatory mechanisms.
To investigate the effect of murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) infection on the developing mouse brain in vitro, we developed an infection system using cerebral slice cultures. Using a micromanipulator, the cerebral slices from mouse embryos on day 18.5 of gestation were injected in the subventricular zone with recombinant MCMV in which the lacZ gene was inserted into a late gene, and were cultured for 7 days. Viral infection, detected by beta-galactosidase reaction, was developed at the injection sites of the slices. The virus-infected spots in the slices were enhanced by adding tumor necrosis factor-alpha to the medium and inhibited by adding phosphonoacetic acid or ganciclovir. Sections from paraffin-embedded slices were subjected to immunohistochemical analyses. Neuronal cells, labeled with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine 24 h before cutting the slices, migrated to the cerebral cortex in the slices. Virus-infected neuronal cells expressing only the early viral antigen migrated to the cortex, whereas glial cells expressing the immediate early and late antigens tended to remain at the injected sites. The neuronal migration of infected cells was not observed in the cerebral slices from 7-day-old mice and viral infection was not detected after injection in the cerebral slices from 14- and 21-day-old mice. These results from these cerebral slices may reflect the infectious dynamics in vivo, and this system may provide a useful model for analysis of disorders of brain development caused by CMV.
More than 50 RNAs expressed by Epstein-Barr virus late in productive infection have been identified. B95-8-infected cells were induced to a relatively high level of permissive infection with the tumor promotor 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate. Polyadenylated RNAs were extracted from the cell cytoplasm, separated by size on formaldehyde gels, transferred to nitrocellulose, and hybridized to labeled recombinant Epstein-Barr virus DNA fragments. Comparison of RNAs from induced cultures with RNAs from induced cultures also treated with phosphonoacetic acid to inhibit viral DNA synthesis identifies two RNA classes: a persistent early class of RNAs whose abundance is relatively resistant to viral DNA synthesis inhibition and a late class of RNAs whose abundance is relatively sensitive to viral DNA synthesis inhibition. The persistent early and late RNAs are not clustered but are intermixed and scattered through most of segments UL and US. The cytoplasmic polyadenylated RNAs expressed during latent infection were not detected in productively infected cells, indicating that different classes of viral RNA are associated with latent and productive infection. Non-polyadenylated small RNAs originally identified in cells latently infected with Epstein-Barr virus are expressed in greater abundance in productively infected cells and are part of the early RNA class. Images
Abstract Adeno-associated viruses (AAV) are defective parvoviruses which require the presence of a helper virus, either an adenovirus or a herpesvirus, to initiate their replication cycle. The mechanisms by which these helper viruses can promote AAV macromolecular synthesis have been investigated in systems where the replication of the helper virus was altered. In the first system, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), a specific inhibitor of herpesvirus-coded DNA polymerase, was used in AAV-herpes simplex virus (HSV) coinfections to determine what effect this drug would have on the replication of AAV. It was found that in the presence of increasing concentrations of PAA, the synthesis of AAV DNA, structural proteins, and immunofluorescent (IF) capsid antigens was inhibited. However, when an adenovirus helper was used in place of HSV, this inhibition was not seen. It was also found that the addition of the drug 5 hr after infection was still effective in inhibiting AAV capsid antigen synthesis completely. This finding indicates that the PAA-sensitive event required by AAV occurs relatively late in the HSV cycle. Restoration of HSV DNA polymerase activity by reversal of a PAA block was not sufficient for initiating AAV replication. De novo protein synthesis was required also. In the second system, the effects of 2-deoxy- d -glucose (2DG), an inhibitor of protein glycosylation, on AAV replication were also examined. In AAV coinfections with HSV, increasing concentrations of 2DG inhibited the production of AAV IF capsid antigens. Conversely, production of AAV intracellular proteins was enhanced with increasing 2DG concentrations. Under these conditions the pattern of IF staining for the major AAV polypeptide was normal. Thus 2DG appears to interfere with the assembly of AAV proteins into a capsid configuration. In experiments with an adenovirus helper, 2DG was found to inhibit initiation of AAV replication through early adenovirus functions.
Phosphonoacetate and thiophosphonoacetate oligodeoxynucleotides were prepared via a solid-phase synthesis strategy. Under Reformatsky reaction conditions, novel esterified acetic acid phosphinodiamidites were synthesized and condensed with appropriately protected 5‘-O-(4, 4‘-dimethoxytrityl)-2‘-deoxynucleosides to yield 3‘-O-phosphinoamidite reactive monomers. These synthons when activated with tetrazole were used with an automated DNA synthesizer to prepare phosphonoacetic acid modified internucleotide linkages on controlled pore glass. The phosphinoacetate coupling products were quantitatively oxidized at each step with (1S)-(+)-(10-camphorsulfonyl)oxaziridine or 3H-1,2-benzodithiol-3-one-1,1-dioxide to produce mixed sequence phosphonoacetate and thiophosphonoacetate oligodeoxynucleotides with an average per cycle coupling efficiency of greater than 97%. Completely deprotected, modified oligodeoxynucleotides were purified by reverse-phase HPLC and characterized by ion exchange HPLC, 31P NMR, and MALDI/T...
Abstract ::: To determine the replicative mechanism for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) DNA, field inversion gel electrophoresis was used to separate HCMV replicative DNAs during lytic infection. Unit-length circular HCMV genomes lacking terminal restriction fragments were detected starting 4 h after infection even when cells were treated with aphidicolin, phosphonoacetic acid, or cycloheximide. Viral DNA synthesis began 24 h after infection and produced large amounts of high-molecular-weight replicative DNA that was a precursor of progeny genomes. Replicative DNA contained rare terminal restriction fragments, and long-arm termini were much less frequent than short-arm termini. Replicative DNA was not composed of unit-length circles because low-dose gamma irradiation of replicative DNA generated numerous random high-molecular-weight fragments rather than unit-length molecules. PacI digestion of replicative DNA from a recombinant HCMV with two closely spaced PacI sites revealed that replicative DNA is concatemeric and genome segment inversion occurs after concatemer synthesis. These results show that after circularization of the parental genome, DNA synthesis produces concatemers and genomic inversion occurs within concatemeric DNA. The results further suggest that concatemers acquire genomic termini during the cleavage/packaging process which preferentially inserts short-arm termini into empty capsids, causing a predominance of short-arm termini on the concatemer.
A DNA polymerase induced by Oncorhynchus masou virus (OMV) was isolated from cultured salmon cells infected with OMV using sequential ion-exchange column chromatography steps. The properties of the OMV polymerase were compared to those of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) polymerase and polymerase alpha from cherry salmon (masu salmon, O. masou) testes. OMV polymerase was clearly distinguished from the other polymerases by its optimum temperature for enzyme activity, 25 degrees C. In an investigation of the effects of phosphonoacetic acid and aphidicolin, OMV polymerase was found to be more resistant to both drugs than HCMV polymerase.
Supporting Information A kanamycin cassette was PCR amplified with modified restriction sites and cloned into individual glycoprotein knockout shuttle vectors. In the case of gN (GP73), gO (GP74), gH (GP75), gM (GP100) and gL (GP115) the entire ORF was cloned and modified by kanamycin cassette insertion using indicated restriction sites. The GP75 ORF was modified by a collapse between two sites (Nru I and EcoR V). For the gB (GP55) the homolog AD-1 domain was PCR cloned as a shuttle vector with Km inserted into a unique EcoR V site as described in materials and methods to disrupt the ORF. The sizes of the original genes by PCR analysis are indicated and the sizes of the modified genes after kanamycin cassette insertion are also indicated (sizes verified by PCR in S4 Fig). (TIF) S3 Fig. PCR analysis of GPCMV wild type and glycoprotein mutant gene loci. Common primers were used to amplify the genes of wild type and mutant GPCMV. PCR primers as described in materials and methods and S1 Table were used to verify that the individual glycoprotein genes had been correctly modified. PCR products of mutant and wild type genes were compared by agarose gel electrophoresis to verify specific modifications. Gels: (i) GP74, GP75, GP100, GP115. (ii) GP73. (iii) GP55. GPCMV BAC mutant and wild type GPCMV analysis via PCR. Sample lanes: (1) GP74 wt; (2) GP74 mutant; (3) GP75 wt; (4) GP75 mutant; (5) GP100 wt; (6) GP100 mutant; (7) GP115 wt; (8) GP115 mutant (9) GP73 wt; (10) GP73 mutant; (11) GP55 wt; (12 RT-PCR assays were carried out with GPCMV strain 22122 infected GPL cells in 6 well dish (moi = 1 pfu/cell) at different time points (6, 24 and 48 hr post infection) in the presence or absence of specific chemical inhibitors. Cycloheximide (CHX, 100 μg/ml) was used to prevent transcription of all but the IE transcripts and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA, 200 μg/ml) was used to prevent late transcripts as described in materials and methods. RT-PCR was carried out as described in materials and methods. Lanes: 1, bp ladder (Invitrogen); 2, mock infected; 3, 6 hour CHX treated; 4, 24 hour CHX treated; 5, 24 hour PAA treated; 6, 48 hour PAA treated; 7, no template control; 8, infected cell lysate no reverse transcriptase stage; 9, untreated (no inhibitor) GPCMV infected cell lysate. GP122 (IE2) RT-PCR is a positive control for GPCMV at specific assay time points treated with inhibitors. GAPDH is a positive cellular RNA control for all time point samples. Western blot analysis of anti-gB depleted GPCMV convalescent sera. Anti-GPCMV sera depleted for anti-gB antibodies by preabsorption against Ad-gB transduced HEK 293 cells was verified for depletion by Western blot analysis as described in Materials and Methods. Lanes 1, 4, 7 mock infected GPL cells; Lanes 2, 5, 8 Ad-gB transduced GPL cell lysates (moi = 20 TDU/cell); Lanes 3, 6, 9 late stage GPCMV infected GPL cell lysates (moi = 1 pfu/ cell). GPCMV convalescent sera (1:500) used for lanes 1-3, anti-gB depleted GPCMV sera (1:100) used for lanes 4-6. GPCMV gB monoclonal antibody used for lanes 7-9 (1:500). Black arrow shows gB. (TIF) S1 
To determine the replicative mechanism for human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) DNA, field inversion gel electrophoresis was used to separate HCMV replicative DNAs during lytic infection. Unit-length circular HCMV genomes lacking terminal restriction fragments were detected starting 4 h after infection even when cells were treated with aphidicolin, phosphonoacetic acid, or cycloheximide. Viral DNA synthesis began 24 h after infection and produced large amounts of high-molecular-weight replicative DNA that was a precursor of progeny genomes. Replicative DNA contained rare terminal restriction fragments, and long-arm termini were much less frequent than short-arm termini. Replicative DNA was not composed of unit-length circles because low-dose -y irradiation of replicative DNA generated numerous random high-molecular-weight fragments rather than unit-length molecules. PacI digestion of replicative DNA from a recombinant HCMV with two closely spaced Pacl sites revealed that replicative DNA is concatemeric and genome segment inversion occurs after concatemer synthesis. These results show that after circularization of the parental genome, DNA synthesis produces concatemers and genomic inversion occurs within concatemeric DNA. The results further suggest that concatemers acquire genomic termini during the cleavage/packaging process which preferentially inserts short-arm termini into empty capsids, causing a predominance of short-arm termini on the concatemer.
A DNA polymerase induced by Oncorhynchus masou virus (OMV) was isolated from cultured salmon cells infected with OMV using sequential ion-exchange column chromatography steps. The properties of the OMV polymerase were compared to those of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) polymerase and polymerase alpha from cherry salmon (masu salmon, O. masou) testes. OMV polymerase was clearly distinguished from the other polymerases by its optimum temperature for enzyme activity, 25 °C. In an investigation of the effects of phosphonoacetic acid and aphidicolin, OMV polymerase was found to be more resistant to both drugs than HCMV polymerase.
Computer analysis of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome indicates there are ∼100 open reading frames (ORFs). Thus far about 30 EBV genes divided into the categories latent and lytic have been identified. The Bam HI F region of EBV is abundantly transcribed during lytic replication. This region is highly conserved among herpesviruses, thus suggesting that some common function could be retained in the ORFs encompassed within this viral fragment. To identify putative novel proteins and possible new markers for viral replication, we focused our attention on the first rightward ORF in the Bam HI F region ( BFRF1 ). Histidine and glutathione S -transferase-tagged BFRF1 fusion proteins were synthesized to produce a mouse monoclonal antibody (MAb). Analysis of human sera revealed a high seroprevalence of antibodies to BFRF1 in patients affected by nasopharyngeal carcinoma or Burkitt9s lymphoma, whereas no humoral response to BFRF1 could be detected among healthy donors. An anti-BFRF1 MAb recognizes a doublet migrating at 37 to 38 kDa in cells extracts from EBV-infected cell lines following lytic cycle activation and in an EBV-negative cell line (DG75) transfected with a plasmid expressing the BFRF1 gene. Northern blot analysis allowed the detection of a major transcript of 3.7 kb highly expressed in EBV-positive lytic cycle-induced cell lines. Treatment with inhibitors of viral DNA polymerase, such as phosphonoacetic acid and acyclovir, reduced but did not abolish the transcription of BFRF1 , thus indicating that BFRF1 can be classified as an early gene. Cell fractionation experiments, as well as immunolocalization by immunofluorescence microscopy, immunohistochemistry, and immunoelectron microscopy, showed that BFRF1 is localized on the plasma membrane and nuclear compartments of the cells and is a structural component of the viral particle. Identification of BFRF1 provides a new marker with which to monitor EBV infection and might help us better understand the biology of the virus.
Summary ::: Complementation between phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant (P ::: r) and -sensitive (P ::: s) variants of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2) was studied to provide information on the function of the virus-coded DNA polymerase. Complementation within and between serotypes was demonstrated, with the growth of the P ::: s partner in mixed infections becoming relatively more resistant and the P ::: r partner relatively more sensitive to PAA than in the corresponding single infections. However, the relative contribution of the P ::: s partner to the mixed infection had a disproportionately large effect on the resultant sensitivity of the mixed infection which was incompatible with non-interactive (e.g. monomeric) polymerase molecules as determinants of PAA sensitivity and resistance. Although a number of solutions gave equally good fits to the available data, the simplest was obtained by assuming that the functional DNA polymerase was a trimer and that only the (P ::: r)3 homotrimer was active in the presence of the drug. In addition, yields from mixed infections in the presence of PAA were enriched for the resistant partner relative to yields in the absence of the drug. These latter results suggested that the intracellular distribution of resistant DNA polymerase oligomers was non-random with respect to resistant and sensitive template genomes and that these resistant polymerase molecules were more likely to encounter and replicate resistant than sensitive genomes. Such an explanation seems to require vectorial nuclear-cytoplasm-nucleus translocation and restricted diffusion of transcript and gene products determining resistance.
The reaction of diethyl methyl phosphonoacetate (1) with hydroxylamine in NaOH solution resulted in the loss of one of the phosphorus ethyl groups, and yielded monoethylphosphonoacetohydroxamic acid (2) as the major product (79%) and diethylphosphonoacetic acid (3) as the minor product (21%). A series of control experiments were carried out to elucidate the sequence of the reactions leading to 2. When the reaction of 1 with NH2OH was carried out in NaHCO3 solution, a transient product 4 was also observed, which slowly transformed to 2. Compound 4 was assigned the structure diethylphosphonoacetohydroxamic acid. There was no dealkylation observed at the phosphorus when 1 was reacted with methoxylamine or when O-methyl diethylphosphonoacetohydroxamate (7) was placed in alkaline solution. The dealkylation at phosphorus was interpreted in terms of intramolecular nucleophilic catalysis by the hydroxamic OH group attacking the phosphorus in 4, involving cyclic 1,2,5-oxazaphospholidine intermediates. © 2003 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Heteroatom Chem 14:67–71, 2003; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI 10.1002/hc.10082
Three lanthanide-based two dimensional (2D) coordination polymers (CPs), [Ln(L)(H2O)2]n, {H3L= (HO)2P(O)CH2CO2H; Ln= Dy3+ (CP 1) , Er3+ (CP 2)} and [{Gd2(L)2(H2O)3}.H2O]n, (CP 3) were hydrothermally synthesized using phosphonoacetic acid as a linker. Structural features revealed the dinuclear Ln3+ nodes were present in the 2D sheet of CP 1 and CP 2 while in case of CP 3, nodes were further connected to each other forming a chain type arrangement throughout the network. The magnetic studies show field induced slow magnetic relaxation property in CP 1 and CP 2 with Ueff values 72 K (relaxation time, τ0 = 3.05 × 10-7 s) and 38.42 K (relaxation time, τ0 = 4.60 × 10-8 s) respectively. Ab-initio calculations suggest that the g tensor of Kramers doublet of the lanthanide ion(Dy3+ and Er3+) is strongly axial in nature which reflects in slow magnetic relaxation behavior of both CPs. CP 3 exhibits significant magnetocaloric effect with -ΔSm = 49.29 J kg-1 K-1, one of the highest value among the reported 2D CPs. Moreover impedance analysis of all the CPs show high proton conductivity with values 1.13×10-6 S cm-1, 2.73×10-3 S cm-1 and 2, 6.27×10-6 S cm-1 for CPs 1-3, respectively at high temperature (>75 °C) and maximum 95% relative humidity (RH).
Abstract ::: The DNA polymerase gene of African swine fever virus (ASFV) was mapped by marker rescue experiments using a phosphonoacetic acid-resistant mutant and hybridization with an oligonucleotide probe designed from the most conserved motif of family B DNA polymerases. Viral DNA fragments mapping in this region were cloned and sequenced. An open reading frame coding for a 1244 amino acid long peptide with a molecular mass of 142.5 kDa was determined from the sequence. A unique feature of ASFV DNA polymerase is the presence of 13 tandem repeats of the sequence Ala-Gly-Asp-Pro near the carboxyl end of the molecule. Comparison with 30 sequences of alpha-like DNA polymerases of cellular and viral origin showed that ASFV DNA polymerase has all the conserved motifs of family B DNA polymerases. A 3.9 kb transcript was detected by Northern hybridization and the transcription initiation and termination sites were mapped by S1 analysis and primer extension. Late transcription was initiated at a site different from the early transcription initiation site. A 145 kDa protein, consistent with the size of the gene, was identified by an in situ enzyme assay after gel electrophoresis of infected cell extracts.
Phosphonoacetic acid inhibited replication of simian varicella virus (Delta herpesvirus) in tissue culture. The drug was tested in patas monkeys 40 h after infection with Delta herpesvirus. A total of 200 mg/kg per day was given intramuscularly, divided into two doses every day for a total of 10 days. The treated monkeys were protected from clinical illness, and Delta herpesvirus was not recovered from their lymphocytes. Complement-fixing and neutralizing antibody titers were significantly lower in phosphonoacetic acid-treated monkeys than in the untreated controls. In animals given the drug alone, there was dermatitis and blackening of the skin and hair, serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase and serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase enzymes were significantly increased, and liver biopsy revealed diffuse cytoplasmic swelling and granulation of the hepatocytes. The therapeutic range of this drug should be studied carefully before considering its use in severe varicella-zoster infection in humans.
The nucleotide changes of the DNA polymerase gene and the susceptibility of acyclovir (ACV)-resistant varicella-zoster virus (VZV) mutants to anti-herpetic drugs were determined and compared to those of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) mutants. The seven ACV-resistant VZV mutants were classified into three groups, N(779)S, G(805)C and V(855)M, according to the sequences of their DNA polymerase genes. The amino acid substitutions N(779)S and G(805)C were identical in position to the N(815)S and G(814)C mutations in the HSV-1 DNA polymerase mutants, respectively, and the V(855)M amino acid substitution was similar to the HSV-1 V(892)M mutation. All three groups of VZV mutants were susceptible to ACV, phosphonoacetic acid, vidarabine and aphidicolin, at levels similar to those seen with the respective HSV-1 mutants, except for subtle differences that were due possibly to the non-conserved regions in their sequences. Although both the HSV-1 and the VZV DNA polymerase genes show 53% sequence similarity, both viruses essentially show a similar biochemical behaviour.
Complementation between phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant (pr) and -sensitive (ps) variants of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2) was studied to provide information on the function of the virus-coded DNA polymerase. Complementation within and between serotypes was demonstrated, with the growth of the ps partner in mixed infections becoming relatively more resistant and the pr partner relatively more sensitive to PAA than in the corresponding single infections. However, the relative contribution of the ps partner to the mixed infection had a disproportionately large effect on the resultant sensitivity of the mixed infection which was incompatible with nonqnteractive (e.g. monomeric) polymerase molecules as determinants of PAA sensitivity and resistance. Although a number of solutions gave equally good fits to the available data, the simplest was obtained by assuming that the functional DNA polymerase was a trimer and that only the (pr)3 homotrimer was active in the presence of the drug. In addition, yields from mixed infections in the presence of PAA were enriched for the resistant partner relative to yields in the absence of the drug. These latter results suggested that the intracellular distribution of resistant DNA polymerase oligomers was non-random with respect to resistant and sensitive template genomes and that these resistant polymerase molecules were more likely to encounter and replicate resistant than sensitive genomes. Such an explanation seems to require vectorial nuclear-cytoplasm-nucleus translocation and restricted diffusion of transcript and gene products determining resistance.
Intracutaneous inoculation of hairless (hr/hr) mice with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) or type 2 (HSV-2) represents an adequate experimental model for determining the efficacy of topically applied antiviral drugs against primary HSV infections. This model allows one to monitor the effects of the drugs on both local (skin lesions) and systemic (paralysis, death) manifestations of the disease and has been used to establish the effectiveness of such antiviral agents as phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) (16, 17) 
Confluent monolayers of Vero cells were infected with viruses at the multiplicity of infection (moi) indicated. Where indicated, 400 g͞ml phosphonoacetic acid (PAA; Lancaster Synthesis) was added to the cultures during viral infections. For each time course, viral infections were staggered such that all time points were harvested simultaneously; 0-h time points were performed by incubating the virus with cells on ice for 1 h before harvesting.
A comparative study of cytotoxicity and antiherpes activity of acycloguanosine (Acg) of the Soviet and American manufacture and a Soviet preparation of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) for herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2) was carried out in primary and continuous cell cultures. The Acg preparation was shown not to be inferior in maximal tolerated concentration, minimal inhibiting concentration, and chemotherapeutic index (CTI) to American drug. Zovirax (Zvr), in relation to both herpes simplex virus types in primary and continuous cell lines. The CTI of Acg and Zvr was 25-30-fold higher than that of PAA for HSV-1 (Vero cells) and 80-fold higher in chick embryo fibroblast cultures (CEF), and 25-fold higher for HSV-2 in CEF.
Abstract ::: Infection of Wi-38 cells with herpes simplex virus induced an elevated DNA polymerase activity which had many biochemical properties different from normal cell DNA polymerase. Phosphonoacetic acid specifically inhibited the virus-induced DNA polymerase as compared to the normal WI-38 cell DNA polymerase. The compound did not appear to inhibit enzyme activity by interacting with the DNA primer.
Abstract The stereoselective Horner–Wadsworth–Emmons reaction of aldehydes with 2-fluoro-2-diethylphosphonoacetic acid utilizing i -PrMgBr afforded ( Z )-α-fluoro-α,β-unsaturated carboxylic acids as the major products.
A cell-free system that catalyzes DNA replication was prepared from cytoplasmic extracts of Vero cells infected with African swine fever virus (ASFV). The cells were permeabilized with lysolecithin and disrupted by mild mechanical action and the nuclei were removed by low-speed centrifugation. Extracts prepared from infected cells at the time of maximal DNA replication incorporated [alpha-32P]dTTP into acid-insoluble material that was sensitive to DNase and resistant to RNase. The reaction was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of ASFV-specific DNA polymerase. Extracts from mock-infected cells had a negligible activity. Micrococcal nuclease-treated extracts were able to replicate added virion DNA or viral replicative DNA. An increase in the mass of DNA detected by ethidium bromide staining and by dot blot hybridization with ASFV DNA showed that the incorporation was due to true replication. Plasmid DNA was also replicated, which indicates that ASFV-specific DNA polymerase does not require a virus-specific origin of replication. The pattern of fragments generated by EcoRI digestion of the in vitro product was characteristic of viral replicative DNA. Hybridization with a recombinant plasmid containing a terminal fragment of ASFV DNA confirmed the presence of dimer terminal ASFV fragments presumably generated from concatemeric replicative intermediates.
Chemical reagents. STO-609 (EMD Biosciences), a specific inhibitor of CaMKK, and HA1004 (Biomol), a specific inhibitor of PKA, were maintained in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) at concentrations of 5 mg/ml and 10 mg/ml, respectively, at Ϫ20°C. Cycloheximide (EMD Biosciences), an inhibitor of protein synthesis, was maintained in DMSO at a concentration of 10 mg/ml at 4°C. Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA; MP Biomedicals) was maintained in water at a concentration of 20 mg/ml at room temperature.
Infection of Wi-38 cells with herpes simplex virus induced an elevated DNA polymerase activity which had many biochemical properties different from normal cell DNA polymerase. Phosphonoacetic acid specifically inhibited the virusinduced DNA polymerase as compared to the normal WI-38 cell DNA polymerase. The compound did not appear to inhibit enzyme activity by interacting with the DNA primer.
We have previously shown that phosphonoacetic acid inhibited herpes simplex virus (HSV) replication in model animal systems (8) and in tissue culture (6). The latter studies indicated inhibition of a late event in viris replication, and a possible suppression of viral DNA synthesis. However, it was uncertain whether the observed suppression was due to a direct inhibition of DNA polymerase or an indirect inhibition through interference with other steps of virus production. Polymerase activity in lysed cultures of infected cells was inhibited strongly by phosphonoacetic acid while the enzyme from normal cells appeared to be resistant. To confirm this differential sensitivity to phosphonoacetic acid the polymerases from both cultures were extensively purified and studied.
Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) is a lymphotropic herpesvirus, and in vitro, it can productively infect many of the same cell types that human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infects. Simultaneous infection of T cells by HIV and HHV-6 can lead to both activation of the HIV promoter and acceleration of the cytopathic effects. Several HHV-6 genes have been demonstrated to activate HIV promoter expression. Among them is a cDNA clone, pCD41 (U27), which codes for the HHV-6 DNA polymerase accessory protein. We have now further characterized the transcription pattern in the pCD41 locus and identified at least six RNA species, ranging in size from 1.2 to 4.5 kb. Northern (RNA) blot analyses showed no significant difference in RNA patterns between the HHV-6 variant A (GS) and variant B (Z29) viruses. All the RNA species detected by pCD41 are polyadenylated and polyribosome associated, suggesting that they may be actively engaged in protein synthesis. Cycloheximide and phosphonoacetic acid inhibition assay results indicate that all the pCD41 RNA species belong to the herpesviral early-late family. Using primer extension and S1 mapping techniques, the 5' and 3' ends of each transcript were mapped to different positions, and no splicing was observed.
Abstract ::: Mutants of herpes simplex virus type 1 resistant to the antiviral drug 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (araA) have been isolated and characterized. AraA-resistant mutants can be isolated readily and appear at an appreciable frequency in low-passage stocks of wild-type virus. Of 13 newly isolated mutants, at least 11 were also resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Of four previously described PAA-resistant mutants, two exhibited substantial araA resistance. The araA resistance phenotype of one of these mutants, PAAr5, has been mapped to the HpaI-B fragment of herpes simplex virus DNA by marker transfer, and araA resistance behaved in marker transfer experiments as if it were closely linked to PAA resistance, a recognized marker for the viral DNA polymerase locus. PAAr5 induced viral DNA polymerase activity which was much less susceptible to inhibition by the triphosphate derivative of araA than was wild-type DNA polymerase. These genetic and biochemical data indicate that the herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase gene is a locus which, when mutated, can confer resistance to araA and thus that the herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase is a target for this antiviral drug.
A DNA polymerase activity induced by human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) was separated from host cell DNA polymerase and purified by phosphocellulose and DNA-cellulose column chromatography. The DNA polymerase activity was strongly inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid, aphidicolin, araATP, and N-ethylmaleimide, but it was resistant to 2',3'-dideoxyTTP. The sensitivity of HCMV-induced DNA polymerase to these reagents resembles that of host cell DNA polymerase alpha. However, HCMV-induced DNA polymerase activity was stimulated several fold by 100 mM ammonium sulfate, by which DNA polymerase alpha activity was strongly inhibited. Furthermore, it was found that a 3'-to-5' exonuclease activity was tightly associated with the HCMV-induced DNA polymerase. The exonuclease was also stimulated by ammonium sulfate, was inhibited by phosphoacetic acid, and it preferred single-stranded DNA as a substrate. The results suggest that the 3'-to-5' exonuclease may play a role in proofreading in the polymerization process as an integral part of the HCMV-induced DNA polymerase.
We compared the rates of synthesis of herpes simplex virus type 1 glycoproteins C and D and quantitated the accumulation of translatable mRNA for each glycoprotein at various times after infection. The rate of synthesis of gD increased sharply early in the infection, peaked by 4 to 6 h after infection, and declined late in the infection. In contrast, the rate of synthesis of gC increased steadily until at least 15 h after infection. The levels of mRNA for both of these glycoproteins, as detected by hybridization and by translation in vitro, continued to increase until at least 15 or 16 h after infection. Synthesis of both gC and gD and their respective mRNAs was found to be sensitive to inhibition of viral DNA replication with phosphonoacetic acid. The finding that reduced amounts of gD were synthesized late in the replicative cycle, whereas gD mRNA continued to accumulate in the cytoplasm, argues that the synthesis of gD is regulated, in part, at the level of translation.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 gene UL4 is predicted to encode a 199-amino-acid protein with a molecular mass of 21 5 kDa. We report here identification of this protein and its localization in the nuclei of infected cells. Antisera raised against oligopeptides corresponding to the C terminus of the predicted UL4 protein were used for identification of a 25 kDa protein as the product of the UL4 gene. This protein was not detected in cells infected with a UL4 defective mutant virus, but was synthesized by coupled in vitro transcription-translation of the UL4 gene. Synthesis of the 25 kDa protein was blocked by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of DNA synthesis, indicating that the UL4 gene is expressed with gamma kinetics. Subcellular fractionation showed the protein to be localized in the nucleus. It was not detected in virions or light particles.
Rhus javanica , a medicinal herb, has been shown to exhibit oral therapeutic anti-herpes simplex virus (HSV) activity in mice. We purified two major anti-HSV compounds, moronic acid and betulonic acid, from the herbal extract by extraction with ethyl acetate at pH 10 followed by chromatographic separations and examined their anti-HSV activity in vitro and in vivo. Moronic acid was quantitatively a major anti-HSV compound in the ethyl acetate-soluble fraction. The effective concentrations for 50% plaque reduction of moronic acid and betulonic acid for wild-type HSV type 1 (HSV-1) were 3.9 and 2.6 μg/ml, respectively. The therapeutic index of moronic acid (10.3–16.3) was larger than that of betulonic acid (6.2). Susceptibility of acyclovir-phosphonoacetic acid-resistant HSV-1, thymidine kinase-deficient HSV-1, and wild-type HSV type 2 to moronic acid was similar to that of the wild-type HSV-1. When this compound was administered orally to mice infected cutaneously with HSV-1 three times daily, it significantly retarded the development of skin lesions and/or prolonged the mean survival times of infected mice without toxicity compared with the control. Moronic acid suppressed virus yields in the brain more efficiently than those in the skin. This was consistent with the prolongation of mean survival times. Thus, moronic acid was purified as a major anti-HSV compound from the herbal extract of Rhus javanica . Mode of the anti-HSV activity was different from that of ACV. Moronic acid showed oral therapeutic efficacy in HSV-infected mice and possessed novel anti-HSV activity that was consistent with that of the extract.
Recently, we reported a new and efficient stereoselective HWE reaction of aldehydes and ketones with bis(2,2,2-trifluoroehtyl)phosphonoacetic acid and found oxophilicity of a phosphorus atom of phosphonoacetate 1. 15, 16) That is to say, the phosphonate moiety of 1 was found to be more easily hydrolyzed than the ester moiety of 1 under aqueous alkaline conditions. Thus, the phosphonoacetic acid was readily prepared by enzymatic hydrolysis of 1 with porcine liver esterase (PLE). Although attempts to hydrolyze the ester moiety of 1 under aqueous alkaline conditions were unsuccessful, reactions of 1 with various alcohols in the presence of triethylamine or 1,8-diazabicyclo[5.4.0]undec-7-ene (DBU) gave the corresponding phosphonoacetate rac-3a-d as the major product (Chart 1). The similar transformation of 2 using various alcohols gave rac-4a-d as shown in Chart 2. Attempts to hydrolyze 2 under aqueous alkaline conditions were also unsuccessful, though phosphonoacetates 4a and 5-7 were obtained (Chart 2). It can be concluded that the high oxophilicity of phosphorus atoms of these HWE reagents 1 and 2 appears to be necessary for Z-selective HWE reaction with aldehydes. [17] [18] [19] The phosphonoacetates rac-3a-d were subjected to enzymatic hydrolysis utilizing PLE (Sigma, E-2884), as follows. Phosphonoacetates rac-3a-d were dissolved in 1/15 M phosphate buffer solution (pH 7.4) and acetone (9 : 1). After addition of PLE (800 units/mmol), the mixture was stirred at room temperature for the appropriate time. The reaction mixture was treated with 10% HCl and then extracted with AcOEt. After evaporation of the extraction in vacuo, the residue was purified on a silica gel column with CHCl 3 -MeOH as eluent to give the corresponding carboxylic acid 8 and unreacted ester 3. The enantiomeric excess of resolution product 8 was determined by means of HPLC analysis with chiral-stationary-phase (CSP) after methylation with (trimethylsilyl)diazomethane (TMSCHN 2 ). 20) Unreacted resolution compound 3 was also subjected to HPLC analysis with CSP. As the result of enzymatic kinetic resolution, novel P-stereogenic phosphonoacetates ( Sho-machi, Tokushima 770-8505, Japan: and b Rigaku Corporation; 3-9-12 Matsubara-cho, Akishima, Tokyo 196-8666, Japan. Received September 6, 2004; accepted October 23, 2004 Novel chiral phosphonoacetates bearing a stereogenic phosphorus atom were successfully synthesized by enzyme-catalyzed kinetic resolution of racemic phosphonoacetates.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 gene UL4 is predicted to encode a 199-amino-acid protein with a molecular mass of 21n5 kDa. We report here identification of this protein and its localization in the nuclei of infected cells. Antisera raised against oligopeptides corresponding to the C terminus of the predicted UL4 protein were used for identification of a 25 kDa protein as the product of the UL4 gene. This protein was not detected in cells infected with a UL4 defective mutant virus, but was synthesized by coupled in vitro transcription-translation of the UL4 gene. Synthesis of the 25 kDa protein was blocked by phosphonoacetic acid, an inhibitor of DNA synthesis, indicating that the UL4 gene is expressed with γ kinetics. Subcellular fractionation showed the protein to be localized in the nucleus. It was not detected in virions or light particles.
Temporal control of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transcription drives transitions between different stages of the pathogenic life cycle [1] . In a manner similar to other herpesviruses, EBV lytic transcription proceeds via a sequential cascade: cellular signaling induces expression of immediate-early genes, immediate-early proteins transactivate early genes, early proteins promote DNA replication, DNA replication allows expression of late genes, and late gene proteins assemble virions for egress. No gold standard experiment, however, yet exists where the identities of EBV true late genes have been determined based on dependence for lytic DNA replication. Assignment as a late gene has generally been based on putative function or homology to other herpes proteins [1, 2] . Experimentally, one intuitive approach would be to pharmacologically inhibit the viral lytic DNA polymerase and measure transcription changes genome-wide. Previous such attempts, however, have yielded confounding results. Microarray measurements showed that phosphonoacetic acid down-regulates all EBV genes, even early transcripts [2] . In contrast, PCR assays determined that acyclovir downregulates no EBV genes at all [3] . The two conflicting experiments both initiated lytic transcription with IgG crosslinking prior to drug treatment [4] . In an attempt to improve upon previous results, we made two technical changes. First, we inhibit spontaneous reactivation naturally observed without external induction [5] in the hope that the effect of a pharmacological inhibitor would be more detectable. Second, we leverage the sensitivity of RNA deep sequencing (RNA-seq) to measure small transcriptional changes that are less accessible to other methods. 
HCMV gene expression is organized in a tightly controlled temporal fashion, conventionally divided into the IE, early and late phases of gene expression. We examined the role of late genes in STAT2 downregulation using the late phase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). Arrest of HCMV gene expression by PAA did not restore STAT2 protein levels ( Fig. 3b) , ruling out an aetiological requirement for HCMV late genes in this process.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA, 1) was coupled with various acyclonucleosides, 2'-deoxyuridines, cytidines, and arabinosyluracils, with 2,4,6-triisopropylbenzenesulfonyl chloride (TPS) or dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCCI) as condensing agents, to give a range of phosphonate esters. The carboxylic ester linkage of PAA to the 5'-position of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BUdR, 3) was achieved via the mixed anhydride formed from (diethylphosphono)acetic acid and trifluoroacetic anhydride. Phosphonoformic acid (PFA, 2) was coupled with BUdR by using the DCCI method to give the phosphonate ester. Of these compounds only phosphonate esters in the 2'-deoxyuridine series showed significant activity against herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2. The BUdR-PAA derivative and the BUdR-PFA derivative were highly active, especially the latter, which was more active than the parent nucleoside BUdR against the type 2 virus. The active compounds may exert their effects by extracellular or intracellular hydrolysis to the corresponding antiviral agents, but an intrinsic component of antiviral activity may also be involved.
Parapoxviruses of seals and sea lions are commonly encountered pathogens with zoonotic potential. The antiviral activity of the antiviral compounds isatin-beta-thiosemicarbazone, rifampicin, acyclovir, cidofovir and phosphonoacetic acid against a parapoxvirus (SLPV-1) isolated from a Californian sea lions (Zalophus californianus) was evaluated. Cidofovir was able to reduce virus-induced cytopathic effect of SLPV-1 in confluent monolayers when used in concentrations greater than 2microg/ml. A decreasing virus yield was observed in the presence of increasing concentrations of cidofovir, which confirmed the ability of cidofovir to inhibit SLPV-1 replication. The in vitro efficacy of cidofovir against SLPV-1 indicates the therapeutic potential of cidofovir for the treatment of infections of humans and pinnipeds with parapoxviruses of seals and sea lions. This study confirms the previously proposed therapeutic potential of cidofovir for the treatment of parapoxvirus infections.
A simple and rapid procedure was developed for the reconstitution of Na(+)-dependent phosphate-transport activity from bovine kidney brush-border membranes. The phosphate transporter appears to be particularly sensitive to extraction conditions. To prevent its inactivation, the phosphate carrier was solubilized in a buffer containing its substrates, Na+ and phosphate, CHAPS, dithiothreitol, brush-border membrane lipids and glycerol. The uptake of phosphate by reconstituted vesicles was strongly stimulated by the presence of a transmembrane Na+ gradient. This stimulation was abolished when the Na+ gradient was dissipated by monensin. The affinity of the carrier for phosphate was similar in proteoliposomes and in brush-border membrane vesicles (apparent Kt = 40 microM). The transporter was also stimulated by the presence of a high concentration of phosphate on the trans side of the membrane. The reconstituted transport activity was inhibited by arsenate, a known inhibitor of phosphate transport. However, the bovine phosphate carrier, intact or reconstituted, was much less sensitive to inhibition by phosphonoformic and phosphonoacetic acids than were those of other species studied so far. SDS/PAGE revealed that only a small number of brush-border membrane proteins were incorporated into the proteoliposomes. This reconstitution procedure should be useful for the purification and identification of the carrier protein.
Thelinear formofEpstein-Barr virus (EBV)DNA hashomologous direct tandemrepeats ofapproximately 500bpateachterminus (TR).After infection, EBV DNA circularizes viatheTR toformtheintracellular episomal DNA.To analyze themechanism ofthesynthesis oflinear DNA throughpossible replicative intermediates, theterminal fragments were identified inthetotal intracellular DNA andthecovalently closed circular DNA froma productively infected cell line after induction ofreplication or after treatment withan inhibitor ofviral DNA synthesis. Thesestudies indicate that some ofthefused terminal fragments detected in thetotal intracellular DNA arereplication-dependent formswhich areselectively excluded fromthecovalently closed circular fraction andare eliminated after treatment withacyclovir. TheEBV terminal restriction enzyme fragments wereidentified inthree producer cell lines, eachwith a characteristic numberofTR inthe intracellular episomal DNA.Identification ofthetermini incell lines established withthethree virus strains revealed thatthenewlytransformed cell lines hada greater numberofTR thandidthetemplate DNA inthe producer cell line. Theincrease inthenumberofTRinprogenyepisomes indicates thatlinear DNA isproduced fromconcatameric replicative intermediates rather thanfromamplified catenated circular intermediates. Inthenonreplicative phaseofinfection, intracellular Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)DNA exists as an covalently closed circular (CCC)episome (18, 21). Afterinduction ofreplication, theepisomal DNA seems toserve as template for generation ofthelinear, virion DNA,whichissynthesized by a virus-specific DNA polymerase, incontrast tothe episomal form(8,10,21).Treatment ofvirus-producer cell lines withphosphonoacetic acid oracyclovir (ACV),specific inhibitors ofEBV polymerase, greatly reduces theabundanceofviral DNA;however, a smallportion oftheviral DNA incell lines isresistant toinhibition byPAA andACV andconsists ofCCC DNA (5,6,8,29,33). Theinhibitors of theviral DNA polymerase alsodonotdecrease theabundanceofEBV DNA incell lines thatdonotproduce virus andthatcontain onlyepisomal DNA,indicating thatEBV episomal DNA ismaintained bythehostcellular DNA polymerase (5,18). An origin ofreplication thatconfers the ability tobemaintained episomally inthepresenceofan EBV gene product, EBNA1,hasbeenidentified (35). Productive replication oftheEBV genome may result fromamplification oftheepisome, generating catenated, linked circles thataresubsequently cleaved intothelinear form.Alternatively, replication may occurthrough arollingcircle orconcatenated replicative intermediate (RI). A lytic origin ofreplication (orilyt) hasbeenidentified intheEBV genome (12). Inpermissively infected celllines, plasmids containing thesesequencesare amplified inconcatenated formafter induction ofEBV replication, suggesting that EBV may alsobereplicated viaa concatenated RI.Pulsefield electrophoretic analyses ofpermissively infected cells revealed higher-molecular-weight formsthatcouldreflect concatenated RI or topologically linkedamplified circular
Abstract Like true DNA replicases, herpes simplex virus type 1 DNA polymerase is equipped with a proofreading 3′-5′-exonuclease. In order to assess the functional significance of conserved residues in the putative exonuclease domain, we introduced point mutations as well as deletions within and near the conserved motifs' exonuclease (Exo) I, II, and III of the DNA polymerase gene from a phosphonoacetic acid-resistant derivative of herpes simplex virus-1 strain ANG. We examined the catalytic activities of the partially purified enzymes after overexpression by recombinant baculovirus. Mutations of the motifs' Exo I (D368A, E370A) and Exo III (Y577F, D581A) yielded enzymes without detectable and severely impaired 3′-5′-exonuclease activities, respectively. Except for the Exo I mutations, all other Exo mutations examined affected both exonuclease and polymerization activities. Mutant enzymes D368A, E370A, Y557S, and D581A showed a significant ability to extend mispaired primer termini. Mutation Y557S resulted in a strong reduction of the 3′-5′-exonuclease activity and in a polymerase activity that was hyperresistant to phosphonoacetic acid. The results of the mutational analysis provide evidence for a tight linkage of polymerase and 3′-5′-exonuclease activity in the herpesviral enzyme.
Eight new polyphosphates containing both nucleic acid base and phosphonoacetic acid ethyl ester were synthesized by the polycondensation of P, P-dichloride of phosphonoacetic acid ethyl ester with 1, 3-dihydroxyalkyl-5-fluorouracil, 1,3-dihydroxyalkyl-uracil and 1,3-dihydroxyalkylthymine. These polyphosphates were tested against Ehrlich Ascites Carcinoma in mice. Polymer IIa and IIc exhibited excellent antitumor activity. IIc also showed lower toxicity.
Anti-microbial compounds typically exert their action by directly interfering with one or more stages of the pathogen's life cycle. However, some compounds also have secondary effects on the host that aid in pathogen clearance. Raltegravir is a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-integrase inhibitor that has been shown to alter the host immune response to HIV in addition to its direct antiviral effect. Interestingly, raltegravir can also directly inhibit the replication of various herpesviruses. However, the host-targeted effects of this drug in the context of a herpesvirus infection have not been explored. Here, we used felid alphaherpesvirus 1 (FHV-1), a close relative of human alphaherpesvirus 1 (HHV-1) that similarly causes ocular herpes, to characterize the host-targeted effects of raltegravir on corneal epithelial cells during an alphaherpesvirus infection. Using RNA deep sequencing, we found that raltegravir specifically boosts the expression of anti-angiogenic factors and promotes metabolic homeostasis in FHV-1-infected cells. In contrast, few changes in host gene transcription were found in uninfected cells. Importantly, we were able to demonstrate that these effects were specific to raltegravir and independent of the direct-acting antiviral effect of the drug, since treatment with the DNA polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid did not induce these host-targeted effects. Taken together, these results indicate that raltegravir has profound and specific effects on the host transcription profile of herpesvirus-infected cells that may contribute to the overall antiviral activity of the drug and could provide therapeutic benefits in vivo. Furthermore, this study provides a framework for future efforts evaluating the host-targeted effects of anti-microbial compounds.
The adsorption and corrosion inhibition properties of some benzotriazole and phospono derivatives namely, 1-(2-pyrrolecarbonyl)-benzotriazole (PBTA), 1-(2-thienylcarbonyl)-benzotriazole (TBTA), 2-phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and 4-phosphonobutyric acid (PBA) on the corrosion of aluminum were investigated by quantum chemical calculations and by molecular dynamics simulations. Global reactivity descriptors such as EHOMO, ELUMO, HOMO–LUMO energy gap (ΔE), chemical hardness (η), softness (σ), electronegativity (χ), proton affinity (PA), electrophilicity (ω) and nucleophilicity (e) have been calculated and discussed. The analysis of the adsorption behavior of these mentioned inhibitors on the Al (111) surface was investigated using molecular dynamics simulations. The binding energies on the Al (111) surface of the studied compounds followed the order: PBTA > TBTA > PBA > PAA. The results obtained in this study are compatible with experimental data and it is proposed that the above mentioned molecules can be successfully used to prevent the corrosion of aluminum metal.
A viral deletion mutant (delta UL21) that lacked the sequences encoding 484 of the predicted first 535 amino acids of the UL21 open reading frame was genetically engineered and studied with respect to its phenotype in cells in culture. We report the following. (i) The replication of delta UL21 was identical to that of the parent herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) strain F in Vero cells, but the yields were three- to fivefold lower than those of the parent virus in human embryonic lung cells. (ii) To characterize the UL21 protein, we immunized rabbits against a purified bacterial fusion protein consisting of glutathione S-transferase fused to the majority of the coding domain of the UL21 gene. Rabbit antiserum directed against the fusion protein recognized a broad band with an apparent M(r) of 62,000 to 64,000 in lysates of cells infected with HSV-1 strain F and in virions purified from the infected cell cytoplasm. This band was absent from lysates of mock-infected cells or cells infected with the delta UL21 virus. The band was significantly reduced in intensity in lysates of cells infected in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid, indicating that it is expressed as a late (gamma 1) gene. (iii) Immunofluorescence studies localized the UL21 antigen primarily in brightly staining granules in the cytoplasms of infected cells. Taken together, the data indicate that the UL21 protein is a virion component dispensable for all aspects of replication of HSV-1 in the cells tested. The electrophoretic mobility of the UL21 protein suggests that it is extensively modified posttranslationally.
A herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) mu- tant TS6 (strain HG52) induces a heat-labile viral DNA poly- merase at the nonpermissive temperature and is markedly re- sistant to 9-{(2-hydroxy-1-(hydroxymethyl)ethoxy)methyl}- guanine (2'-nor-2'-deoxyguanosine; 2'NDG). This antiviral drug requires HSV thymidine kinase for phosphorylation to an active inhibitor (2'NDG-triphosphate), and thymidine kinase- deficient mutants of HSV exhibit varying degrees of resistance to 2'NDG, with the HSV type 1 (HSV-') B2006 mutant (Kit) being markedly resistant. The ts6 mutation and the 2'ndgR-l mutation within the viral DNA polymerase locus have been physically mapped by marker rescue and generation of HSV- 1/HSV-2 intertypic recombinants. The physical map limits for the ts6 mutation and 2'ndgR-1 mutation are closely linked within a 2.2-kilobase-pair region of DNA sequences and are physically separate from the paa-Il and acvR-l mutations. Resistance to 2'NDG by HSV-2 ts6 can be overcome in the presence of combinations of 2'NDG and phosphonoacetic acid, indicating drug synergism within the viral DNA polymerase locus. These physical mapping studies expand the limits of DNA sequences defining an active center in the viral polymer- ase to 3.5 kilobase pairs, indicating that regions spanning the entire polymerase polypeptide may contribute to a specialized surface able to interact with nucleotides of different structure. The new antiherpes nucleoside analog 9-{(2-hydroxy-l-(hy- droxymethyl)ethoxy)methyl}guanine (2'-nor-2'-deoxyguano- sine; 2'NDG) is an efficient inhibitor of herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 (HSV-' and HSV-2), human cytomegalovirus, and Epstein-Barr virus replication (1-4). It is a preferential substrate for the HSV-1 thymidine kinase (TK), is readily phosphorylated to the triphosphate, and is a potent inhibitor of viral DNA polymerase (4). It inhibits herpes virus replica- tion in cell culture and has therapeutic efficacy against her- pes virus infections in mice. 2'NDG is a structural analog of acyclovir (9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl)guanine; ACV). Restriction endonuclease analysis of the genomes of plaque-purified intertypic recombinants of HSV-1 and HSV- 2, generated by marker rescue, has permitted physical map- ping oftemperature-sensitive mutations and drug resistance mutations associated with HSV DNA polymerase activity.
Eugeniin exhibits antiviral activity against acyclovir and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) as well as the wild-type HSV-1 in vitro. In this study, we characterized the biological activity of eugeniin in cutaneously HSV-1-infected mice and its interaction with HSV-1 DNA polymerase. The oral and intraperitoneal administrations of eugeniin at 0.3 mg/kg showed similar therapeutic efficacy in retarding the development of skin lesions of HSV-1-infected mice. The two routes of administration at 6 or 50 mg/kg significantly prolonged the mean survival times and/or reduced mortality without toxicity. The oral administration of eugeniin at 50 mg/kg reduced virus yields in the skin and brain of infected mice. Thus, the therapeutic efficacy of oral administration at the various doses of eugeniin was similar to that of intraperitoneal administration, suggesting that the oral bioavailability of eugeniin was high with respect to absorption. Furthermore, the anti-HSV-1 activity of eugeniin was characterized by isobolograms analyzing its combined effects with acyclovir or PAA in HSV-1-infected Vero cells. Eugeniin enhanced the anti-HSV-1 activity of acyclovir but was suggested to be antagonistic with PAA. The interaction of eugeniin and PAA on the activity of partially purified HSV-1 DNA polymerase suggested that eugeniin interacted with the polymerase in the vicinity of PAA-binding site. Thus, eugeniin showed different anti-HSV-1 action from acyclovir and PAA and therapeutic anti-HSV-1 activity in mice.
A somewhat unique characteristic of EcPFK is that both of the allosteric ligands, activator MgADP and inhibitor phospho-enol-pyruvate (PEP), bind at the same effector-binding site. This study attempts to understand why two different ligands binding to an identical binding site propagate such markedly different effects. Here we investigated the role that functional groups in PEP play in ligand binding and allosteric propagation via thermodynamic linkage analysis. Previously reported data suggested a potential interaction between PEP and serine 58 in EcPFK contributes substantially to ligand binding and plays a lesser role in allosteric signal propagation. By mutating Ser58 to Ala, Cys, and Asn we have further probed its interaction with PEP. When the Ala, Cys, and Asn mutants were examined, an increase in Kd for PEP of 90x, 30x, and 160x, respectively, that of wild type EcPFK was observed. Each mutant also displays somewhat diminished allosteric inhibition, however allosteric propagation was affected to a lesser degree than binding. In the presence of MgADP the Ala, Cys, and Asn variants exhibit a Kd of 0.25mM, 0.038mM, and 2.8mM, respectively. Comparing the values to wild type EcPFK, with Kd equal to 0.073mM, we see strong changes in Kd while two of the three mutations showed little to no change in allosteric activation. Though these data provide more evidence of a larger role for Ser58 in inhibition relative to activation, no affect on the nature of allosteric phenomena is observed for either MgADP or PEP in the mutants. Also, the examination of inhibitor analogs phosphonoacetic acid, 2-carboxyethylphosphonic acid, and 2-phosphonomethylacrylic acid in the above mutations further strengthens the hypothesis that Ser58 plays a larger role in ligand binding than allosteric coupling. Funding provided by NIH grant GM33216 and the Welch Foundation.
There is good evidence that cytotoxic T lymphocytes play an important role in the clearance of equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV1) in horses. We have demonstrated that, in common with other alphaherpesviruses, EHV1 infection can lead to dramatic down-regulation of MHC class I expression at the cell surface, a common strategy for pathogen evasion of the host immune response. This down-regulation is specific for MHC class I and does not reflect a general shut-off of host-cell protein synthesis. The use of monoclonal antibodies that recognize different MHC class I epitopes has demonstrated that the effect may be allele- or locus-specific. Use of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid, which prevents late viral gene expression, showed that the effect is mediated by an immediate-early or early viral gene, and use of the protein translation inhibitor cycloheximide confirmed that an early gene is primarily responsible. The data indicate that EHV1 infection results in enhanced endocytosis of MHC class I from the cell surface; the only other herpesvirus reported to use this mechanism is human herpesvirus-8. Elucidation of the precise mechanisms used by EHV1 in this process and identification of the genes responsible may lead to improved vaccination strategies.
By using piperazine as a structure-directing agent, four new metal phosphonates with layered structure, [pzH2]0.5[ML(H2O)]·1.5H2O [M = Co (1), Ni (2), Zn (3)] and [pz]0.5[Sb2L2]·H2O (4) (H3L = 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid; pz = piperazine), have been hydrothermally synthesized and structurally characterized by single-crystal and powder X-ray diffraction, infrared spectroscopy, elemental analysis and thermogravimetric analysis. Compounds 1–3 are isostructural and comprise MO6 octahedra and CPO3 tetrahedra connected by [O3PCH(OH)CO2]3– to form a 2D layered structure with a one-dimensional channel system along the a axis direction. In compound 4, two SbO4E trigonal bipyramids (E is a lone pair of electrons, which occupy an axial position) are interconnected into a dimer by corner-sharing. The so-built dimers are bridged by the CPO3 tetrahedra into a 2D layered structure with a one-dimensional channel system in the c axis direction. The protonated piperazine cations for compounds 1–3 and the piperazine molecules for compound 4 are located between two adjacent layers.
Phosphonic acids are the only phosphorus-containing organic compounds detected in the Murchison meteorite. We earlier described the synthesis of methyl-, hydroxymethyl-, and 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acids using sodium phosphite as a source of phosphite radicals. We now show that ultraviolet irradiation of dilute aqueous solutions of acetylene in the presence of sodium phosphite leads to the synthesis of vinyl phosphonic acid. At neutral to basic pH, vinyl phosphonic acid reacts under photochemical conditions to produce phosphonoacetaldehyde and 2-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid as the major products, as well as smaller yields of 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and ethyl phosphonic acid. Of these products, phosphonoacetaldehyde is particularly interesting as a potential precursor of prebiotic carbohydrate derivatives.
Abstract The enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of phosphonoacetic acid, a non-biogenic C–P compound, was purified to electrophoretic homogeneity from a wild-type strain of Penicillium oxalicum . A 50-fold enrichment was obtained by a combination of anion exchange, hydrophobic interaction and MonoQ-fast protein liquid chromatography, with a yield of one-third of the initial activity. A characterization of the protein showed both similarities and differences with respect to the well-characterized bacterial counterpart. The fungal phosphonoacetate hydrolase is a 43-kDa monomeric protein showing low affinity toward its substrate and high sensitivity to even mildly acidic pH values. Enzyme activity neither required nor was stimulated by the presence of divalent cations. Polyclonal antibodies were raised in mouse against the purified protein, allowing the study of enzyme induction as a function of the phosphate status of the cell. Peptide mass mapping led to the determination of about 20% of the primary structure. Despite the biochemical differences, amino acid alignment showed a high degree of similarity of the fungal hydrolase with the few sequences available to date for the bacterial enzyme. The possible physiological role of a phosphonoacetate hydrolase is discussed.
Human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6)-specific monoclonal antibody (Mab) 9A5D12 reacted with the nucleus of HHV-6 strain GS-infected cells and immunoprecipitated a phosphorylated polypeptide with an approximate size of 41 kDa, designated HHV-6 P41. A 110-kDa polypeptide was also immunoprecipitated by the MAb. These polypeptides were synthesized early in infection, and the synthesis was greatly reduced by phosphonoacetic acid. Polypeptides with identical sizes were recognized by the MAb from cells infected with an additional eight HHV-6 strains. A 2.1-kb cDNA insert was identified from an HHV-6(GS) cDNA library constructed in the lambda gt11 expression system by using MAb 9A5D12. This cDNA insert hybridized specifically with viral DNA from HHV-6 strains GS and Z-29 and with two predominant transcripts with approximate sizes of 2.5 and 1.2 kb from infected cells. The reactivity of the MAb with a fusion protein expressed in the prokaryotic vector suggested that the cDNA encodes a 62- to 66-kDa protein. Analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA insert revealed a 623-amino-acid-residue single open reading frame of 1,871 nucleotides, with an open 5' end. The predicted polypeptide is highly basic and contains a long stretch of highly hydrophobic residues localized to the carboxy terminus. The amino-terminal half of the predicted HHV-6 protein from the cDNA shows significant homology with the UL44 gene product of human cytomegalovirus, coding for the ICP36 family of early-late-class phosphoproteins. Two TATA boxes are located at nucleotide positions 668 and 722 of the cDNA. In vitro translation of RNA transcribed in vitro from the cDNA resulted in the synthesis of a 41-kDa polypeptide only. This polypeptide was readily immunoprecipitated by MAb 9A5D12, and its partial peptide map was identical to that of the 41-kDa polypeptide detected in infected cells. Together, these results indicate that the HHV-6 P41 is encoded within a gene coding for a larger protein.
Abstract A new approach, ketone derivatization, for introducing desired functionality into the α-keto pyrophosphate analogues oxophosphonoacetic acid (COPAA) and oxomethanediphosphonic acid (COMDP) is exemplified in the synthesis of several COPAA and COMDP hydrazones with specific functional groups. The preparation of tetraalkyl COMDP esters is also described. Inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (isolated enzyme) and of p24 production by HIV-1 (virus-infected H9 cells) by hydrazone derivatives of COPAA and COMDP is briefly discussed.
Summary Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) persisted for weeks in a human cell culture system in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and could be recovered from the cultures after removal of the compound. The inhibition of VZV was dose dependant. VZV-Infected HFS cultures were maintained and subcultured in 50 μg/ml PAA with no evidence of cytopathic activity (CPE); when cultures were shifted to PAA-free medium, infectious virus was recovered. The period between removal of PAA and appearance of CPE was directly related to duration of exposure to PAA, and the amount of virus recovered was inversely proportional to the duration of suppressive cultivation. VZV-Specified antigen(s) were detected in the cytoplasm (paranuclear region) of PAA-maintained HFS cells 84–90 hr after inoculation with cell-free VZV. The authors wish to thank Dr. John Zaia, Sidney Farber Cancer Institute, for supplying some of the sera used in the immunofluorescent studies.
Summary ::: The synthesis of virus polypeptides in rat XC cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1; 13VB4tsC75) was studied. At the permissive temperature the virus induced the synthesis, in a cascade fashion, of significant amounts of several early polypeptides (ICP 6, 8 and 39) and those late polypeptides that are relatively resistant to inhibition by phosphonoacetic acid in HEp2 cells (ICP 5, 11, 25, 29, 43 and 44). The infectious cycle appeared to become arrested in XC cells at about 7 to 9 h post-infection, because the relative concentrations of early and latest polypeptides labelled thereafter remained constant and the levels of several of the late virus polypeptides were severely reduced (ICP 2, 10, 24 and 26) or not synthesized at all (ICP 32, 34 and 37). When XC cells were infected at a very high m.o.i., only a small amount of virus DNA synthesis could be detected; the synthesis of cellular DNA was not impaired and the infected XC cells continued to replicate for several weeks at least. When XC cells were infected at the non-permissive temperature, only the immediate-early (IE) ICP 4 could be detected while IE ICP 0 and 22 were not observed. Infection of XC cells with HSV-1 (MP) also resulted in the production of early and late viral polypeptides. On the other hand, in XC cells infected with HSV-1 (F) and HSV-1 (HFEM), the synthesis of virus polypeptides could not be detected.
There is good evidence that cytotoxic T lymphocytes play an important role in the clearance of equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV1) in horses. We have demonstrated that, in common with other alphaherpesviruses, EHV1 infection can lead to dramatic down-regulation of MHC class I expression at the cell surface, a common strategy for pathogen evasion of the host immune response. This down-regulation is specific for MHC class I and does not reflect a general shut-off of host-cell protein synthesis. The use of monoclonal antibodies that recognize different MHC class I epitopes has demonstrated that the effect may be allele-or locus-specific. Use of the viral DNA synthesis inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid, which prevents late viral gene expression, showed that the effect is mediated by an immediate-early or early viral gene, and use of the protein translation inhibitor cycloheximide confirmed that an early gene is primarily responsible. The data indicate that EHV1 infection results in enhanced endocytosis of MHC class I from the cell surface; the only other herpesvirus reported to use this mechanism is human herpesvirus-8. Elucidation of the precise mechanisms used by EHV1 in this process and identification of the genes responsible may lead to improved vaccination strategies.
Abstract. Phosphonic acids are the only phosphoruscontaining organic compounds detected in the Murchison meteorite. We earlier described the synthesis of methyl-, hydroxymethyl-, and 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acids using sodium phosphite as a source of phosphite radicals. We now show that ultraviolet irradiation of dilute aqueous solutions of acetylene in the presence of sodium phosphite leads to the synthesis of vinyl phosphonic acid. At neutral to basic pH, vinyl phosphonic acid reacts under photochemical conditions to produce phosphonoacetaldehyde and 2-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid as the major products, as well as smaller yields of 1-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acid, phosphonoacetic acid, and ethyl phosphonic acid. Of these products, phosphonoacetaldehyde is particularly interesting as a potential precursor of prebiotic carbohydrate derivatives.
As a possible synthetic route to ethyl phosphonic acid, and because C 2 compounds are interesting starting materials in prebiotic chemistry, we have studied the addition of phosphite radicals to acetylene. In the present paper we report the formation of vinyl phosphonic acid via this route. We also describe the production, from vinyl phosphonic acid, of phosphonoacetaldehyde, phosphonoacetic acid, ethyl-, 1-hydroxyethyl-, and 2-hydroxyethyl phosphonic acids. Phosphonoacetaldehyde is the phosphonic acid derivative produced in highest yield and is an extremely interesting potential prebiotic precursor. 1 H-NMR spectra were obtained using a Bruker AC-100 or AM-400 spectrometer. Chemical shifts (␦) are given in parts per million (ppm) referenced to tetramethylsilane. 31 P-NMR spectra were obtained using a Bruker AM-400 spectrometer. Chemical shifts are given in ppm referenced to trimethylphosphate.
The synthesis of virus polypeptides in rat XC cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1; 13VB4tsC75) was studied. At the permissive temperature the virus induced the synthesis, in a cascade fashion, of significant amounts of several early polypeptides (ICP 6, 8 and 39) and those late polypeptides that are relatively resistant to inhibition by phosphonoacetic acid in HEp2 cells (ICP 5, 11, 25, 29, 43 and 44)~ The infectious cycle appeared to become arrested in XC cells at about 7 to 9 h postinfection, because the relative concentrations of early and latest polypeptides labelled thereafter remained constant and the levels of several of the late virus polypeptides were severely reduced (ICP 2, 10, 24 and 26) or not synthesized at all (ICP 32, 34 and 37). When XC cells were infected at a very high m.o.i., only a small amount of virus DNA synthesis could be detected; the synthesis of cellular DNA was not impaired and the infected XC cells continued to replicate for several weeks at least. When XC cells were infected at the non-permissive temperature, only the immediate-early (IE) ICP 4 could be detected while IE ICP 0 and 22 were not observed. Infection of XC cells with HSV-1 (MP) also resulted in the production of early and late viral polypeptides. On the other hand, in XC cells infected with HSV-1 (F) and HSV-1 (HFEM), the synthesis of virus polypeptides could not be detected.
SUMMARY Proliferative responses byT cells fromnewborn cordbloodstimulated withPHA orCD3were reduced following infection withlive (but notkilled) herpes simplex virus invitro although activation (measured bycalcium flux) andIL-2production wereunaffected. Theimpairment ofproliferation wasnotreversed byexogenous IL-2, phosphonoacetic acid, indomethacin oranti-alpha orantigammainterferon antibodies. HSVDNA wasdetected byhybridization inDNA extracted from unseparated MNC andfromsubsets sorted forCD3+andforHLA DR+ expression. HSVDNA replication wasnotdetected bythymidine uptake andonlysmall amounts ofvirus wererecovered in aninfectious centre assay, suggesting thatinfection wasnon-permissive. Nevertheless, in-vitro synthesis ofalimited range ofHSVproteins including ICP4wasdetected bymetabolic labelling.
The invention relates to a high-efficiency low-phosphorous corrosion inhibition antisludging agent as well as a preparation method and application thereof, belonging to the technical field of environmental protection. The high-efficiency low-phosphorous corrosion inhibition antisludging agent comprises 2-phosphonate-1,2,4-butane tricarboxylic acid (PBTCA), polyamine polyether methylene phosphonate (PAPEMP), 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA), thiazole (benzothiazole or methylbenzothiazole or mercaptobenzothiazole), anhydrous zinc chloride, acrylic acid-2-methyl-2-acrylamide propanesulfonic acid (AA/AMPS) copolymers, and the like. The high-efficiency low-phosphorous corrosion inhibition antisludging agent is added to circulating water by the concentration of 20-80 mg/L in the term of a replenished water quantity and can be extensively suitable for operating in corrosive circulating water with chloride ions less than 1000 mg/L; antisludging corrosion inhibition property can meet the requirements specified by GB 50050-2007 industrial circulating water design specifications; and in addition, the composite agent has the advantages of high efficiency, low phosphorus, environmental protection, high chlorine resistance, suitability for automatic chemical feed, convenience for control and use, and the like.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits the multiplication of African swine fever (ASF) virus in VERO cells. The observed inhibition of the in vivo DNA synthesis could be related to the in vitro inhibition of a virus-induced DNA polymerase activity present in cytoplasmic extracts from infected VERO cells.
Mutants of HSV which are resistant to acyclovir (acycloguanosine) have been isolated following serial passages of several herpes simplex virus (HSV) strains in the presence of the drug. The majority of the mutants isolated are defective in induction of thymidine kinase (TK) and this is consistent with the observation that independently isolated TK- viruses are naturally resistant to ACV. One mutant is described (SC16 R9C2) which is resistant in biochemically transformed cells which express HSV TK. This suggests that its resistance resides at a level other than TK. It is also resistant to phosphonoacetic acid, suggesting that the DNA polymerase locus may be involved. A further mutant is described [Cl (101) P2C5] which induces normal levels of TK, although the nature of resistance of this virus is not yet elucidated.
Paraquat (PQ) is a non-selective herbicide and is exceedingly toxic to humans. The mechanism of PQ toxicity is very complex and has not been clearly defined. There is no specific antidote for PQ poisoning. 5-hydroxy-1-methylhydantoin (HMH) is an intrinsic antioxidant and can protect against renal damage caused by PQ. The mechanism of PQ toxicology and the possible effects of HMH on PQ-induced lung injury were determined in this study. It was found that PQ decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and elevated the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), while HMH elevated SOD activity and decreased the level of MDA. Based on metabolomics, the citrate cycle, glutathione metabolism, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes, inflammatory mediator regulation of TRP channels, purine and pyrimidine metabolism, aldosterone synthesis and secretion, and phenylalanine metabolism were changed in the PQ group. Compared with the PQ group, the levels of N-acetyl-l-aspartic acid, L-glutamic acid, L-aspartic acid, mesaconic acid, adenosine 5′ monophosphate, methylmalonic acid, cytidine, phosphonoacetic acid, hypotaurine, glutathione (reduced) and cysteinylglycine increased, while the levels of corticosterone, xanthine, citric acid, prostaglandin G2, 4-pyridoxic acid and succinyl proline decreased in the HMH group. These metabolites revealed that HMH can alleviate inflammation caused by PQ and elevate the activity of intrinsic antioxidants. In conclusion, our results revealed PQ toxicology and the pharmacology underlying the protective effect of HMH on lung injury due to PQ. Toxicity caused by PQ results in lipid peroxidation and an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS), nitric oxide (NO), damage to the biliary system, gastrointestinal system and nervous system, in addition to lungs, kidneys, and the liver. HMH is a good antioxidant and protects against lung injury caused by PQ. In summary, HMH efficiently reduced PQ-induced lung injury in mice.
Phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) inhibits the multiplication of African swine fever (ASF) virus in VERO cells. The observed inhibition of the in vivo DNA synthesis could be related to the in vitro inhibition of a virus-induced DNA polymerase activity present in cytoplasmic extracts from infected VERO cells.
Mutants of HSV which are resistant to acyclovir (acycloguanosine) have been isolated following serial passages of several herpes simplex virus (HSV) strains in the presence of the drug. The majority of the mutants isolated are defective in induction of thymidine kinase (TK) and this is consistent with the observation that independently isolated TK-viruses are naturally resistant to ACV. One mutant is described (SC~6 R9C2) which is resistant in biochemically transformed cells which express HSV TK. This suggests that its resistance resides at a level other than TK. It is also resistant to phosphonoacetic acid, suggesting that the DNA polymerase locus may be involved. A further mutant is described [C1 (Ioi) P2C5] which induces normal levels of TK, although the nature of resistance of this virus is not yet elucidated.
Paraquat (PQ) is a non-selective herbicide and is exceedingly toxic to humans. The mechanism of PQ toxicity is very complex and has not been clearly defined. There is no specific antidote for PQ poisoning. 5-hydroxy-1-methylhydantoin (HMH) is an intrinsic antioxidant and can protect against renal damage caused by PQ. The mechanism of PQ toxicology and the possible effects of HMH on PQ-induced lung injury were determined in this study. It was found that PQ decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and elevated the level of malondialdehyde (MDA), while HMH elevated SOD activity and decreased the level of MDA. Based on metabolomics, the citrate cycle, glutathione metabolism, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes, inflammatory mediator regulation of tRp channels, purine and pyrimidine metabolism, aldosterone synthesis and secretion, and phenylalanine metabolism were changed in the PQ group. Compared with the PQ group, the levels of N-acetyl-l-aspartic acid, L-glutamic acid, L-aspartic acid, mesaconic acid, adenosine 5′ monophosphate, methylmalonic acid, cytidine, phosphonoacetic acid, hypotaurine, glutathione (reduced) and cysteinylglycine increased, while the levels of corticosterone, xanthine, citric acid, prostaglandin G2, 4-pyridoxic acid and succinyl proline decreased in the HMH group. These metabolites revealed that HMH can alleviate inflammation caused by PQ and elevate the activity of intrinsic antioxidants. In conclusion, our results revealed PQ toxicology and the pharmacology underlying the protective effect of HMH on lung injury due to PQ. Toxicity caused by PQ results in lipid peroxidation and an increase in reactive oxygen species (RoS), nitric oxide (no), damage to the biliary system, gastrointestinal system and nervous system, in addition to lungs, kidneys, and the liver. HMH is a good antioxidant and protects against lung injury caused by PQ. In summary, HMH efficiently reduced PQ-induced lung injury in mice.
Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was used to assess the relative effects of scaling and corrosion for steel electrodes in cooling water media and to obtain information on corrosion inhibition and scale inhibition properties of 1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic acid (HEDP) and hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPA). Steel electrodes were preliminary scaled with CaCO3 in simulated cooling water and then immersed in the characterization solution. Analysis of the impedance spectra with a simple model allowed following of the time evolution of physical parameters corresponding to the calcium carbonate islands and to the corrosion products accumulated in areas not covered by the scale. In uninhibited solutions, the main effect was the progressive deposit of corrosion products with no additional scaling and little restructuring of the initial carbonate islands. When the solution contained HEDP alone, part of the initial scale was detached from the surface, but the presence of HPA or the mixture HPA+HEDP only induced structural modifications of the initial scale. Moreover, the impedance analysis also showed that HPA exhibited better corrosion inhibition properties than HEDP.
An corrosion inhibitor was prepared from polyaspartic acid(PASP),sodium gluconate,zinc sulfate and hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid(HPAA).The performance of corrosion inhibition was evaluated by rotary hanging-piece corrosion tests and steady polarization.The result showed that the corrosion inhibitor was an anodic inhibitor and had good corrosion inhibition performance in seawater.The corrosion inhibition rates were above 94% when the concentration of corrosion inhibitor was 100mg/L in seawater.
Abstract This paper describes syntheses of stable functionalized iron oxide nanoparticles through surface modification of magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles with tailor-made phosphonic acids of type X(CH 2 ) n PO 3 H (where X = –COOH, –NH 2 ). Iron oxide nanoparticles were synthesized by co-precipitation method and the surface modification process was achieved using ultrasonic probe. XRD analysis shows that the crystalline structure of iron oxide nanoparticle remains unaffected even after surface modification with phosphonic acid-based coupling molecules. FTIR and XPS studies indicate that phosphonic acid binds on iron oxides preferably through tridentate bonding mode. TEM analysis shows narrow size distribution and uniform morphology of phosphonoacetic acid and 2-carboxyethyl phosphonic acid modified particles. BET surface area and phosphorous content analysis show higher coverage by –COOH terminated phosphonic acids than –NH 2 terminated phosphonic acids in the particular reaction condition. DLS study shows almost no change in hydrodynamic diameter of phosphonoacetic acid and 2-carboxyethyl phosphonic acid modified particles in a wide pH range.
Treatment of Vero cells infected with herpes simplex virus type 2 with the proper concentrations of hydroxyurea (HU) reduced the production of infectious virus and markedly increased the accumulation of tubular structures in the nuclei when the drug was added within 6 hours after infection. Similar accumulation of tubular structures in the infected nuclei was also observed when infected cells were treated with phosphonoacetic acid at proper concentrations. The release of HU-treated, herpes simplex virus type 2-infected cells from the drug-induced blocking of synthesis of infectious virus resulted in the marked decrease of tubular structures coincidentally with the beginning of production of infectious virus. The data suggest the possibility that the disappearance of tubular structures may be related to the active production of infectious virus.
Seven temperature-sensitive mutants of vaccinia virus have been isolated after preselection for virus resistant to phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). In all seven mutants, the PAA-resistant (PAAr) and ts lesions represent separate mutations. In one mutant, NG26, the PAAr (NG26-PAAr) and ts (NG26-ts) mutations are very closely linked. Both NG26-ts and NG26-PAAr map in the HindIII E DNA fragment. NG26 has a DNA-negative phenotype at 40 degrees. NG26-ts is in the same complementation group as ts42, another DNA-negative mutant which maps in the HindIII E DNA fragment (R. C. Condit, A. Motyczka, and G. Spizz, Virology 128, 000-000, 1983). The order of the mutations is (NG26-ts)-(NG26-PAAr)-ts42. The virus-coded DNA polymerase has been partially purified from wt- and NG26-infected cells. The DNA polymerase encoded by NG26 is temperature sensitive and PAA resistant in vitro as compared to the wt enzyme.
The syntheses and structural characterization of 1D, 2D, and 3D materials based on copper phosphonocarboxylate backbones are described. More specifically, the synthesis of materials from diethylphosphonoacetic acid (DEPAA) or the close variant hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA) and water-soluble Cu2+ salts has been studied. The initial synthesis involving copper acetate and DEPAA was carried out at 160 °C under hydrothermal conditions and a Cu:P ratio of 1:1 resulted in the formation of a mixture of products with the same composition, Cu1.5(O3PCH2CO2)·H2O. Compound 1, which is blue in color and crystallizes in the triclinic space group P1, has a layered structure. Compound 2, which is green in color and crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P21/c, has a three-dimensional structure. Reduction of the reaction temperature to 140 °C results in the exclusive formation of the α-phase (1), while an increase in the reaction temperature to 180 °C yields a pure sample of 2. A Cu:P ratio of 2:3 in a reaction a...
Detection of viral nucleic acids plays a critical role in the induction of intracellular host immune defences. However, the temporal recruitment of immune regulators to infecting viral genomes remains poorly defined due to the technical difficulties associated with low genome copy-number detection. Here we utilize 5-Ethynyl-2’-deoxyuridine (EdU) labelling of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) DNA in combination with click chemistry to examine the sequential recruitment of host immune regulators to infecting viral genomes under low multiplicity of infection conditions. Following viral genome entry into the nucleus, PML-nuclear bodies (PML-NBs) rapidly entrapped viral DNA (vDNA) leading to a block in viral replication in the absence of the viral PML-NB antagonist ICP0. This pre-existing intrinsic host defence to infection occurred independently of the vDNA pathogen sensor IFI16 (Interferon Gamma Inducible Protein 16) and the induction of interferon stimulated gene (ISG) expression, demonstrating that vDNA entry into the nucleus alone is not sufficient to induce a robust innate immune response. Saturation of this pre-existing intrinsic host defence during HSV-1 ICP0-null mutant infection led to the stable recruitment of PML and IFI16 into vDNA complexes associated with ICP4, and led to the induction of ISG expression. This induced innate immune response occurred in a PML-, IFI16-, and Janus-Associated Kinase (JAK)-dependent manner and was restricted by phosphonoacetic acid, demonstrating that vDNA polymerase activity is required for the robust induction of ISG expression during HSV-1 infection. Our data identifies dual roles for PML in the sequential regulation of intrinsic and innate immunity to HSV-1 infection that are dependent on viral genome delivery to the nucleus and the onset of vDNA replication, respectively. These intracellular host defences are counteracted by ICP0, which targets PML for degradation from the outset of nuclear infection to promote vDNA release from PML-NBs and the onset of HSV-1 lytic replication.
The syntheses and structural characterization of 1D, 2D, and 3D materials based on copper phosphonocarboxylate backbones are described. More specifically, the synthesis of materials from diethylphosphonoacetic acid (DEPAA) or the close variant hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid (HPAA) and water-soluble Cu 2+ salts has been studied. The initial synthesis involving copper acetate and DEPAA was carried out at 160°C under hydrothermal conditions and a Cu:P ratio of 1:1 resulted in the formation of a mixture of products with the same composition, Cu 1.5 (O 3 PCH 2 CO 2 ) · H 2 O. Compound 1, which is blue in color and crystallizes in the triclinic space group P1 j , has a layered structure. Compound 2, which is green in color and crystallizes in the monoclinic space group P2 1 /c, has a three-dimensional structure. Reduction of the reaction temperature to 140°C results in the exclusive formation of the R-phase (1), while an increase in the reaction temperature to 180°C yields a pure sample of 2. A Cu:P ratio of 2:3 in a reaction at 180°C yields a third, related phase, Cu(HO 3 PCH 2 CO 2 ) · H 2 O, 3, which is again triclinic but has a chain-like structure. Finally, reaction of copper chloride and HPAA in a Cu:P ratio of 1:1 at room temperature yields one-dimensional Cu(R,S-HO 3 PCH(OH)CO 2 )(H 2 O) 2 ] · H 2 O, 4, that incorporates both R and S HPAA stereoisomers. All materials were studied by single crystal X-ray crystallography, X-ray powder diffraction, TGA, FT-IR, and elemental analyses.
The synthesis and structural characterization of metal phosphonates (general formula M n+ (O 3 PR) n/2 · mS have become areas of increased interest in recent years (where M is a metal cation at oxidation state n+, R is an organic moiety, S is a solvent molecule, frequently water, and m is the number of lattice solvent molecules). Work in our laboratories and others has dispelled the notion that these materials can only be formed as layered materials, with porous materials being reported that contain R groups such as -CH 2 4 and -CH 3 . 5 Many of the porous materials reported in the literature have a common feature. [1] [2] [3] [4] Whereas the phosphonate anion contains a functional group that can act as a Lewis base, coordination to the metal atoms often occurs via this group in addition to coordination by the -PO 3 H n -(2-n) (n ) 0, 1, 2) group. This mode of coordination can lead to cross-linking of chains or lamellae to form 2D or 3D solids, or can occur entirely within discrete layers within a lamellar solid. In this respect, phosphonate anions containing carboxylate or carboxylic acid functional groups are ideally suited for the formation of porous materials, and a number of materials of this type, containing a variety of metals, have been reported in the literature. 3, [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] Of the phosphonocarboxylates reported, most contain carbon chains of two or more methylene units. A few, however, are based upon the phosphonoacetate anion, [O 3 PCH 2 CO 2 H] 2-. Phosphonoacetic acid is a simple phosphonocarboxylic acid with only one methylene group separating the phosphonate and carboxylate groups. It can exist in any one of four forms: the fully protonated uncharged molecule, monoanionic (where one phosphonate oxygen is deprotonated), dianionic (where one phosphonate and the carboxylate oxygens are deprotonated), and the fully deprotonated trianionic form. 14 To date, Zn, 3, 9 Mn, 12, 13 Al, 15 Fe, 16 Pb, 10, 12 and Cu 9 derivatives of phosphonoacetic acid have been reported in the literature, which variously contain all three possible forms of the phosphonoacetate anion.
In this paper, we report the results of our investigations into the copper phosphonoacetate family of materials. Hydrothermal reactions between copper acetate and diethyl phosphonoacetic acid or phosphonoacetic acid have been carried out at different temperatures and reagent ratios. The syntheses have resulted in the formation of three new materials, two of which are polymorphs. In an attempt to further rationalize how the nature of the organic group of the phosphonic acid affects the structure of the products, a Cu-HPAA material has also been synthesized. In the resulting material, the presence of an -OH group on the carbon adjacent to the phosphonate group has a profound effect upon the structure, yielding a one-dimensional material. The molecular formulas and numbering of all four compounds are given in Scheme 1.
Detection of viral nucleic acids plays a critical role in the induction of intracellular host immune defences. However, the temporal recruitment of immune regulators to infecting viral genomes remains poorly defined due to the technical difficulties associated with low genome copy-number detection. Here we utilize 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) labelling of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) DNA in combination with click chemistry to examine the sequential recruitment of host immune regulators to infecting viral genomes under low multiplicity of infection conditions. Following viral genome entry into the nucleus, PML-nuclear bodies (PML-NBs) rapidly entrapped viral DNA (vDNA) leading to a block in viral replication in the absence of the viral PML-NB antagonist ICP0. This pre-existing intrinsic host defence to infection occurred independently of the vDNA pathogen sensor IFI16 (Interferon Gamma Inducible Protein 16) and the induction of interferon stimulated gene (ISG) expression, demonstrating that vDNA entry into the nucleus alone is not sufficient to induce a robust innate immune response. Saturation of this pre-existing intrinsic host defence during HSV-1 ICP0-null mutant infection led to the stable recruitment of PML and IFI16 into vDNA complexes associated with ICP4, and led to the induction of ISG expression. This induced innate immune response occurred in a PML-, IFI16-, and Janus-Associated Kinase (JAK)-dependent manner and was restricted by phosphonoacetic acid, demonstrating that vDNA polymerase activity is required for the robust induction of ISG expression during HSV-1 infection. Our data identifies dual roles for PML in the sequential regulation of intrinsic and innate immunity to HSV-1 infection that are dependent on viral genome delivery to the nucleus and the onset of vDNA replication, respectively. These intracellular host defences are counteracted by ICP0, which targets PML for degradation from the outset of nuclear infection to promote vDNA release from PML-NBs and the onset of HSV-1 lytic replication.
Here we use fluorophore conjugation by click chemistry to investigate the temporal recruitment of intrinsic and innate immune regulators to 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) labelled HSV-1 genomes under physiologically low MOI conditions (0.1 to 3 PFU/cell). HSV-1 genomes were readily detected in the nucleus within 30 minutes of infection (post-addition of virus) and to be stably entrapped within PML-NBs in restrictive cell types prior to PML-NB disruption and genome release by ICP0. PML-NB entrapment of vDNA occurred independently of the PRR sensor IFI16 and ISG expression, demonstrating that this intrinsic host response does not directly contribute to the induction of innate immunity. Saturation of this host defence during HSV-1 ICP0-null mutant infection led to the stable recruitment of PML and IFI16 into vDNA complexes associated with ICP4, and the subsequent induction of ISGs. This induced innate immune response occurred in a PML-, IFI16-, and Janus associated kinase (JAK) dependent manner, which could be suppressed by the vDNA polymerase inhibitor phosphonoacetic acid (PAA). These data demonstrate that vDNA entry into the nucleus alone under low MOI conditions is not sufficient to stimulate a robust innate immune response to HSV-1 nuclear infection, which only occurs after the onset of vDNA replication. We show that intrinsic and innate arms of intracellular host immunity act sequentially, as inhibition of innate immune signalling could not relieve the intrinsic cellular restriction of an HSV-1 ICP0-null mutant, but instead led to significantly enhanced virus yields under infection conditions that enabled the onset of vDNA replication. Collectively, our data demonstrate that intrinsic and innate arms of host immunity are temporally distinct immune events activated in response to vDNA nuclear entry and the onset of vDNA replication, respectively. Our data identifies distinct roles for PML in the sequential regulation of these intracellular immune defences to HSV-1 infection, findings that are likely to be highly pertinent in the cellular restriction of many nuclear replicating viral pathogens.
The effects of inhibition of phosphatase activity in 100,000 g supernatant solution from human frontal cortex on dopamine (DA) conjugation were examined using the phosphatase substrate p-nitrophenyl phosphate (pNPO4). The increases in DA sulfation seen in the presence of pNPO4 suggested that inhibition of phosphatase activity in high speed supernatant solutions of brain may substantially alter the pattern of 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) metabolism and subsequently the rate of DA sulfation. Accordingly, the effects of the pyrophosphate analog phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) on the extent of DA sulfation and PAPS metabolism were examined in 100,000 g supernatant solution from human frontal cortex. At concentrations up to 10 mM, PAA markedly reduced PAPS hydrolysis to inorganic sulfate and 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphate (PAP) and significantly extended the linear time period for the sulfation of DA. These findings suggest that the phosphatase enzymes that degrade PAPS to produce the end product inhibitor, PAP, and possibly other break-down products of PAP, play an important role in determining the observed levels of phenol sulfotransferase activity in tissue from human brain in vitro.
Adenosine triphosphate phosphoribosyltransferase (ATP-PRT) catalyzes the first step in histidine biosynthesis, a pathway essential to microorganisms and a validated target for antimicrobial drug design. The ATP-PRT enzyme catalyzes the reversible substitution reaction between phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate and ATP. The enzyme exists in two structurally distinct forms, a short- and a long-form enzyme. These forms share a catalytic core dimer but bear completely different allosteric domains and thus distinct quaternary assemblies. Understanding enzymatic transition states can provide essential information on the reaction mechanisms and insight into how differences in domain structure influence the reaction chemistry, as well as providing a template for inhibitor design. In this study, the transition state structures for ATP-PRT enzymes from Campylobacter jejuni and Mycobacterium tuberculosis (long-form enzymes) and from Lactococcus lactis (short-form) were determined and compared. Intrinsic kinetic isotope effects (KIEs) were obtained at reaction sensitive positions for the reverse reaction using phosphonoacetic acid, an alternative substrate to the natural substrate pyrophosphate. The experimental KIEs demonstrated mechanistic similarities between the three enzymes and provided experimental boundaries for quantum chemical calculations to characterize the transition states. Predicted transition state structures support a dissociative reaction mechanism with a DN*AN‡ transition state. Weak interactions from the incoming nucleophile and a fully dissociated ATP adenine are predicted regardless of the difference in overall structure and quaternary assembly. These studies establish that despite significant differences in the quaternary assembly and regulatory machinery between ATP-PRT enzymes from different sources, the reaction chemistry and catalytic mechanism are conserved.
Abstract A monoclonal antibody designated L2 was produced against a late intracellular protein induced by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). This protein was expressed in cells producing virus but not in EBV genome-positive nonproducer cell lines, EBV genome-negative cell lines, or producer cultures cultivated in the presence of phosphonoacetic acid as determined by immunofluorescence. In addition, the antibody did not react with the membranes of infected cells indicating that it was not directed against an EBV-induced membrane antigen component. The monoclonal antibody was shown to recognize a glycoprotein with a molecular weight of approximately 125K by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. This glycoprotein was consistently found to be slightly larger when isolated from the P 3 HR-1 cell line as opposed to the B-95-8 cell line. A similar difference was also noted by comparison of peptide maps of this protein isolated by immunoaffinity chromatography from the two cell lines. Serological studies indicated that this 125K glycoprotein was a major component of the viral capsid-antigen (VCA) complex as defined by immunofluorescence.
In order to clarify the mechanism of intestinal absorption of an antibiotic, fosfomycin (FOM), the uptakes of FOM by rabbit and human small intestinal brush-border membrane vesicles (BBMV) were studied. The initial uptake of FOM by BBMV at 15 s was saturable at a higher concentration of FOM. The kinetic parameters at 37 degrees C of the saturable uptake expressed by the Michaelis-Menten equation were Kt = 5.17 mM and Jmax = 3.88 nmol/15 s/mg protein for rabbits, and Kt = 4.03 mM and Jmax = 1.90 nmol/15 s/mg protein for humans. The most efficient uptake was observed in the presence of both inward-directed Na(+)- and H(+)-gradients in both mammals. The uptake of FOM was inhibited by inorganic phosphate, FOM glycol which is a degradation product of FOM in the gastric juice and specific inhibitors of phosphate transport such as arsenate and phosphonoacetic acid. These findings confirmed that FOM absorption from rabbit and human small intestines is associated with the phosphate transport system. These transport phenomena of FOM are in close agreement with those obtained previously in rat BBMV studies. Judging from the results obtained for three mammalian species, rat, rabbit and human, it was concluded that carrier-mediated transport via the phosphate transport system is a very important pathway of intestinal absorption of FOM.
The invention relates to a cleaning fluid of copper alloy, which is prepared by the following components in percentage by weight: tartaric acid 3.4-8.1, coconut oil fatty acid diethanolamide 6.2-7.9, ethanol 4.3-6.8, 2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid 5.5-9.5, polyether L61 6.4-8.0, triethanolamine 4.3-8.9, ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid tetrasodium salt 1.5-7.4, isopropanol 3.4-8.8, benzotriazole 2.4-9.7 and the balance of deionized water. The cleaning fluid can rapidly remove dirt on the surface of the copper alloy without corroding the copper alloy, the cleaned surface of the copper alloy is smooth and bright, and the cleaning fluid has high cleaning efficiency being more than 99% and remarkable cleaning effect.
Adenosine 5′-diphosphate ribose (ADPR) is an intracellular signalling molecule generated from nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+). Synthetic ADPR analogues can shed light on the mechanism of activation of ADPR targets and their downstream effects. Such chemical biology studies, however, are often challenging due to the negatively charged pyrophosphate that is also sensitive to cellular pyrophosphatases. Prior work on an initial ADPR target, the transient receptor potential cation channel TRPM2, showed complete pyrophosphate group replacement to be a step too far in maintaining biological activity. Thus, we designed ADPR analogues with just one of the negatively charged phosphate groups removed, by employing a phosphonoacetate linker. Synthesis of two novel phosphonoacetate ADPR analogues is described via tandem N,N′-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide coupling to phosphonoacetic acid. Neither analogue, however, showed significant agonist or antagonist activity towards TRPM2, underlining the importance of a complete pyrophosphate motif in activation of this particular receptor.
A monoclonal antibody designated V3 was produced against a late protein associated with the Epstein-Barr virus-induced viral capsid antigen complex. The antibody reacted with discrete patches in the nuclei of infected cells as well as with virus particles, as shown by immunofluorescence and ultrastructural immunoperoxidase staining. The molecular weight of the protein precipitated by this monoclonal antibody was ca. 160,000. All anti-viral capsid antigen antibody-positive sera tested in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay reacted with this purified protein. The synthesis of the antigen was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid but was not affected by tunicamycin, indicating that this was a late nonglycosylated viral protein. No differences were noted between the protein isolated from the P3HR-1 and B-95-8 cell lines as determined by immunoprecipitation and peptide mapping. By isoelectric focusing, this protein had a pI on the basic side ranging from 7.5 to 9.0.
Both myxoma and fibroma viruses were found to be sensitivein vitro to the effects of phosphonoacetic acid. Detectable myxoma virus replication was inhibited at a drug concentration of 100 µg/ml. Fibroma virus replication was inhibited at a concentration of 500 µg/ml. Because of this difference in sensitivity, myxoma virus was used to infect rabbits to test the efficacy of phosphonoacetic acid in the treatment of a systemic viral disease. Rabbits were given 400 mg kg−1 day−1 of phosphonoacetic acid subcutaneously in two injections. Phosphonoacetic acid-treated animals showed a reduction in the severity of disease. Neither serum viral antigen nor infectious virus could be detected. In phosphate buffered saline-treated animals both serum viral antigen and infectious virus were found. All animals treated with phosphate buffered saline died of myxomatosis.
Abstract ::: Fourteen mutants known or likely to contain mutations in the herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase gene were examined for their sensitivity to aphidicolin in plaque reduction assays. Eleven of these exhibited some degree of hypersensitivity to the drug; altered aphidicolin-sensitivity correlated with altered sensitivity to the pyrophosphate analog, phosphonoacetic acid. The DNA polymerase specified by one of these mutants, PAAr5, required roughly seven-fold less aphidicolin to inhibit its activity by 50% than did polymerase specified by its parental strain. Mutations responsible for the aphidicolin-hypersensitivity phenotype of PAAr5 were mapped to an 0.8 kbp region in the herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase locus. These data taken together indicate that 1) mutations in the herpes simplex virus DNA polymerase gene can confer altered sensitivity to aphidicolin, 2) that the HSV polymerase is sensitive to aphidicolin in vivo, and 3) that amino acid alterations which affect aphidicolin binding may affect the pyrophosphate exchange-release site as well, suggesting that aphidicolin binds in close proximity to this site.
With phosphonoformic acid (PFA) and its analog, phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), as the lead compounds, α-amino phosphonates were introduced into PFA and PAA. The derivatives of N-(alkoxycarbonyl-alkoxyphosphonyl)-α-amino phosphonates (I) and N-(alkoxycarbonyl-methyl-alkoxyphosphonyl)-α-amino phosphonates (II) with the N-terminal of amino phosphonates bonding to phosphorus atom of PFA andPAA were synthesized via the reaction of the corresponding phosphonyl chloride with α-amino phosphonates in the presence of a base. The31P NMR spectra of I and II were determined. It is found that the coupling constants3 J pp with R3 being alkyl group were lower than those with R3 being (substituted) phenyl, and this result was discussed. The preliminary bioassay showed that some of the compounds I and II have better activities against tobacco mosaic virus (TMV). The inhibitory was higher than that of DHT (2, 4-dioxyhexahydro-1, 3, 5-triazine). In addition, some of the compounds showed the activity against cancer cells.
Oxyresveratrol, a major compound purified from Artocarpus lakoocha, a Thai traditional medicinal plant, was evaluated for its mechanism of action and therapeutic efficacy on cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection in mice. The inhibitory concentrations for 50% HSV-1 plaque formation of oxyresveratrol, three clinical isolates, thymidine kinase (TK)-deficient and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA)-resistant HSV-1 were 19.8, 23.3, 23.5, 24.8, 25.5 and 21.7microg/ml, respectively. Oxyresveratrol exhibited the inhibitory activity at the early and late phase of viral replication and inhibited the viral replication with pretreatment in one-step growth assay of HSV-1 and HSV-2. Oxyresveratrol inhibited late protein synthesis at 30microg/ml. The combination of oxyresveratrol and acyclovir (ACV) produced synergistic anti-HSV-1 effect, as characterized by the isobologram of plaque inhibition. Mice orally treated with oxyresveratrol (500mg/kg/dose) dose at 8 h before and three times daily had significant delay in herpetic skin lesion development (P<0.05). Topical application of 30% oxyresveratrol ointment five times daily significantly delayed the development of skin lesions and protected mice from death (P<0.0001).
Nuclei from superinfected Raji cells synthesized Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) DNA in vitro in the absence of cell DNA synthesis. The synthesis of EBV DNA in vitro was inhibited by phosphonoacetic acid and N-ethylmaleimide, and maximum synthesis was achieved in the absence of an ATP-regenerating system. Nuclei from mock-infected cells required an ATP-regenerating system for maximum DNA synthesis.
This research introduced microwave synthesis process of HPAA (2-hydroxyphosphonoacetic acid) which was synthesized from glyoxylate and phosphorous acid. The optimized technological conditions was defined by orthogonal experiment. The mass proportion of phosphorous and glyoxylate was 1:1.2, catalyst mass was 1g, 95°C, 25min, and its yield rate was more than 90%. The molecular structure of product was characterized by IR spectrogram analysis. This method was simple、economical and practical.
Phosphonoformic acid (PFA) and its congener phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) are inhibitors of viral replication whose mechanism of action appears to be the inhibition of viral DNA polymerase. These drugs inhibit mammalian DNA polymerase to a lesser extent. We sought to characterize the effects of phonoformic acid on mammalian cells by examining mutants of S49 cells (a mouse T-lymphoma line), which were selected by virtue of their resistance to phosphonoformic acid. The 11 mutant lines that were resistant to growth inhibition by 3 mM PFA had a range of growth rates, cell cycle distribution abnormalities, and resistance to the inhibitory effects of thymidine, acycloguanosine (acyclovir), aphidicolin, deoxyadenosine, and novobiocin. Most mutant lines had pools of ribonucleoside triphosphates and deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates similar to those of wild-type S49 cells. However, one line (PFA 3-9) had a greatly elevated dCTP pool. When this mutant line was further characterized, no apparent defect in DNA polymerase alpha activity was seen, but an increased ribonucleotide reductase activity, as assayed by CDP reduction in permeabilized cells, was observed. The CDP reductase activity in the PFA 3-9 cells decreased to wild-type control levels, and the CDP reductase activity of wild-type cells was also greatly reduced when PFA (2-3 mM) was added to permeabilized cells during the enzyme assay. These results demonstrate that PFA can directly inhibit ribonucleotide reductase activity in permeabilized cells. In addition, when PFA was added to exponentially growing cultures of either wild-type or PFA 3-9 mutant cells, the drug caused an arrest in S phase of the cell cycle and a decrease in all four deoxyribonucleotide pools, with the most dramatic decrease in the dCTP pools. The reduction in the dCTP pool level could be reversed by addition of exogenous deoxycytidine, but this reversed PFA toxicity only marginally. These observations suggest that PFA is an inhibitor of mammalian ribonucleotide reductase and that partial resistance to PFA can be effected by mutation to increased CDP reductase activity resulting in a large dCTP pool. This mutation results in less than twofold resistance to PFA, suggesting that other sites of inhibition coexist.
Herpes simplex viruses readily develop resistance to acyclovir (ACV) in vitro; this would seem to pose a threat to its clinical use. However, the most common mutation leading to resistance results from the virus losing its ability to induce thymidine kinase (TK); the enzyme which activates the drug. Such viruses are attenuated in mice suggesting that the development of resistant viruses in vivo will be comparatively rare, and indeed have not so far been isolated from experimentally infected, ACV-treated animals. However, a highly resistant mutant is described which is TK+ and virulent in mice. But this ACV-resistant virus is very sensitive to a number of other antiherpetic drugs with clinical potential including idoxuridine, trifluorothymidine, Ara A and phosphonoacetic acid.
A base-induced rearrangement involving a 1,2-shift of a phosphono group from carbon to carbon was found in 2-halo-substituted 1-aminoethane-1-1-diphosphonic acids. In 2,2-dichloro-substituted 1-aminoethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid, each of the geminal phosphono groups underwent a 1,2-shift and an elimination, respectively, to give phosphonoacetic acid.
They ARISE prodrugs SUPPLIED LIPID CONTENT FOR TREATMENT OF VIRAL herpes infections, influenza, hepatitis B, Epstein-Barr virus, and varicella-zoster VIRUS, AND AGENTS AND DERIVATIVES CITOMEGALOVIRUS antivirals. COMPOUNDS FORMED BY phosphonoacids WITH ARE Antiviral activity that are linked, or through PHOSPHATE GROUP OR GROUP OF phosphonoacid carboxyl, ONE OF A GROUP SELECTED LIPID. Phosphonoacetic ACID AND ACID phosphonoformic ARE THEREFORE LINKED TO Phospholipids, glycerolipid, sphingolipids, glycolipids, OR FATTY. COMPOUND PERSISTS after hydrolysis intracellular Like phosphonoacids antivirals. Lipid Prodrugs ARE EFFECTIVE IN IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF ANTIVIRAL phosphonoacids prolonging its antiviral activity after administration.
DVE virus strains isolated from ducks (KPV strain), geese (KLM strain) and an attenuated strain designated DP were compared. Geese vaccinated with the avirulent strain showed 100% protection against the KPV strain, but no or only partial protection against strain KLM, depending on age and sex. Protection against the KLM strain was achieved by using a vaccine containing an avirulent strain and a strain of medium virulence. In goose embryo fibroblast (GEF) cell cultures the virulent strains caused small plaques with sharp margins, whereas the avirulent strain produced large plaques of uneven outline. In the cross-neutralisation tests all strains studied proved to be antigenically identical. The three strains showed similar sensitivity to heat-treatment (at 50 degrees C) and phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), while the KLM strain was slightly more resistant to trypsin-treatment.
The effects of phosphonoacetic acid on the synthesis of herpesvirus saimiri-specific polypeptides in productively infected cells were examined. At concentrations that inhibited virus DNA synthesis (greater than or equal to 150 micrograms/ml), phosphonoacetic acid prevented the synthesis of the majority of virus-specific polypeptides while allowing the synthesis of a subset of virus proteins (i.e., 110,000 [110K], 76K, 72K, 51K, 48K, 29K, 24K, and 20K or 21K) and the protracted synthesis of host-specified polypeptides. Other inhibitors of DNA synthesis (e.g., cytosine arabinoside) showed the same selective inhibition of late virus protein synthesis and identified the same resistant subset of early virus-specific polypeptides. This DNA synthesis-independent subset included the 51K phosphoprotein, which, together with the 110K, 48K, and 31K polypeptides, accumulated in the nuclear fraction of infected cells.
Abstract We are reporting the stability constants of the different complexes between phosphonoacetic acid (PAA), phosphonoformic acid (PFA), aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA), aminoethylphosphonic acid (AEPA) and methylenediphosphonic acid (MDP) with the aluminum metal ion in aqueous solutions. (In this study the term aluminum is reserved for the 3+ ion.) The affinity of the phosphonic acid derivatives to chelate aluminum has been tested by potentiometric titrations with I = 0.10 M KNO 3 at 25 ± 0.1 °C. The proposed aluminum–ligand complex structures have been confirmed by 31 P NMR, 13 C NMR, and 27 Al NMR experiments. Both PAA and PFA formed simple one to one complexes. The respective values for PAA are log β 111 = 13.57, log β 110 = 10.58, and log β 11−1 = 5.84. The respective values for PFA are log β 112 = 15.24, log β 111 = 13.11, and log β 110 = 6.88. In contrast to PAA and PFA, the major species formed with AMPA and AEPA consist of a series of dimeric complexes. The 31 P NMR spectra of these complexes indicate that the amine groups do not co-ordinate to aluminum and remain protonated. In addition to these dimeric complexes, a monoprotonated monomer of Al–AMPA also has been detected. The 27 Al NMR experiments indicated that the aluminum is hexacoordinated in all the complexes in this study and the hydroxide ion did not remove aluminium from its complexes. Among the ligands studied, PAA and PFA were able to solubilize aluminum at physiological pH. A comparison between the acidities and the chelating properties of the ligands used is presented.
The results shown in Fig. 3 (C-E) demonstrate that the Rep40/52-LacI proteins were indeed 185 able to inhibit the replication of pHSV-lacO, as cells containing mature stage IV replication 186 compartments (RCs) were not observed (Fig. 3C, panel n) . By contrast, the Rep40/52 187 proteins, which lack any DNA binding domain, did not prevent the formation of mature stage 188 IV HSV-1 RCs (Fig. 3C, panel i) . Neither did Rep40/52K340H-LacI proteins, which can bind 189 to the pHSV-lacO replicon but contain a point mutation that inactivates the helicase activity 190 (43), although the numbers of stage IV RCs was reduced by approximately 50%, indicating 191 that these fusion proteins can inhibit the replication of the HSV-1 replicon to some extent 192 (Fig. 3C panel s) . Also, in the cultures transfected with the Rep40/52-LacI encoding plasmid 193 the frequency of stage III RCs was reduced by approximately 3-fold (Fig. 3C, panel m) while 194 the frequency of cells showing diffuse EYFP-fluorescence (stage I; no RCs) was much higher 195 when compared with the control cultures: no Rep (Fig. 3C, panel a) , Rep40/52 (Fig. 3C,  196 panel f) and Rep40/52K340H-LacI (Fig. 3C, panel p) . We confirmed that Rep40/52-LacI 197 proteins indeed bind to LacI-repressor binding sites on the pHSV-lacO reporter DNA by 198 determining the degree of colocalization of the LacI-EYFP and the Rep AF594 signals in the 199 merged images of panels l-n and q-s (Fig. 3E) was comparable in cells transfected with the Rep40/52 (Fig. 3C, panels f-i) and the 205 Rep40/52K340H-LacI (Fig. 3C, panels p-s) transfected with Rep40/52-LacI (Fig. 3C, panel o) or the helicase mutant Rep40/52K340H-213 LacI (Fig. 3C, panel t) respectively. Such foci were not observed when cells were transfected 214 with the Rep40/52 (Fig. 3C, panel j) encoding plasmid or the empty backbone plasmid 215 pcDNA3.1+ (Fig. 3C, panel e) . Some of the foci represent background binding of EYFP-LacI 216 to Lac-repressor binding sites on the pHSV-lacO input plasmid because foci were observed 217 also in presence of pHSV-lacO and EYFP-LacI and absence of helpervirus (not shown). This 218 hypothesis is supported also by the fact that Rep52-LacI proteins, which can also bind to the 219 Lac-repressor binding sites on the pHSV-lacO replicons, co-localized with the numerous 220 EYFP-LacI foci (Fig. 3C, insets panel o and t) . While we do not know why the number of foci 221 increases markedly in presence of Rep40/52-LacI constructs or absence of HSV-1 222 helpervirus, similar patterns have been observed before to occur when HSV-1 replication is 223 inhibited by treating the cells with viral polymerase inhibitors such as phosphonoacetic acid 224 (PAA), transfection of Rep68/78 encoding plasmids, or by use of polymerase-deficient HSV-1 225 (24, 44, 45). 226
